# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p23 6.5620 Lecture on 11⧸24⧸2025 (Mon).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p23-

It's not easy to say the least， but it's actually really。So I'm hoping youll learn a lot by doing it。

If you decide to。Okay。Okay， so today。So last time we talked about the subject protocol。

 we start to see that interactive proofs are actually very powerful and we talked about the subject protocol。

 and we defined doubly efficient interactive proofs。

 and we also started to mention the GCR protocol that's going to be the topic for today so what we're going to do today is we're going to prove that we're going to construct an interactive proof that has the following guarantees。

😊，So， fix any circuit C。To have some uniformity condition， I don't want to go into it right now。

You need what's called large space uniform， which means there's a t machine that runs with logarithmic space and is able to generate this circuit C。

But for now， let's not worry about the uniformity requirements of the circuit。

 So the theorem says fix any circuit C。That has size S。 Think of the size as very， very large。 size。

 meaning the number of gates。But the depth is very shallow。 That's how we should think about it。

 It's arbitrary powder S And D。But it's going to be interesting in the setting where the depth is shallow。

 You can think of like log S depth， for example， or polylog S depth。 That's the complexity class N C。

U。But， and their size could be very large， okay。Now that GCR protocol。

 it's an interactive proof between a prover and a verifier where they want to prove that the value of the circuit and some input x。

Is some bit B， Let's think of the circuit as being just 1 bit。

 It doesn't have to be can be many bits， but whatever I wrote is 1 B。Okay。

 so it takes an input n bit string and it outputs a bit。And I。

 the proveover is going to convince the verifier。😊，So the verifier knows a description of C。

 some succct description of C。 He knows X。And has the prove， compute C for me。 I can compute it。

 I too many gates。 I can't do it on my own。 compute C for me。

So the prover computes it and tells them that's the output。Now， the verifier。

Wants to be convinced that's the case。 So they run this interactive proof。

And the guarantees of the proof is the followinging。The round complexity。

 so the number of rounds grows with the depth。And polylo in the size。😡，Okay。

 that's what you should think of D as small。That's when it's interesting。诶。Yeah。

 you can think you one setting of parameters。 So this is it's any parameters。

 but an interesting setting of parameters。Is where x is in 0，1 to the N。C is of size poly N。

 for example。D is of size like polyloggan。And think of the security parameter as being of size polyloggan or something like that。

 So that two of the security parameters is like negligible in N， if you want。 or okay。

 that's kind of the。Setting。Okay。A。Okay， so， so this is the wrong complexity。Let me。

The Verifier runtime。Is。Grows， of course， with with a number of rounds。 What happened。Okay。

 grows with a number of browns。But per round， he does very little。Work。😮，So。What， no， wait。 Im yeah。

 So you have here some。Order in Delta。So， okay。Okay， so。The number order of lambmbda。

And D it also runs in time the security parameter。And。And like quasi linear in X。

 the security parameter comes in。s this， this hides polylogue factors in N and Lada。Okay。

So let me write it better。Okay， let me write it this way， sorryri。Everything has all of lambda， also。

So。Okay， by this， I mean this hides。Polly。Log X factors。In each round。

 he does like Lambda Time forlog S， basically。 And the last thing he needs to do is something that depends only in D length。

Okay， so each round， his computation does not at all depend on the input length。 In each round。

 the computation is like poly gas times lambda。And at the end of end。

 he needs to read the input and do something。 But it's basically linear， quasi linear in the input。

Okay， the proveover runtime is polyial and S in the security parameter。Completeness is one。😊。

And the soundist is going to be negligible in Lada。Okay。

So we're going to get very good soundness and completeness。 soundness is going to be like close to 0。

 It's negligible in Nada。😊，And again， you should think of a。Okay， let me write it better， sorry。

It's let me be most。 it's like。Order D times polylog S。Divided by two to the lambda。

That's gonna be the soundness。 Okay， that's the probability that you can cheat。

And that's what we're gonna prove today。 By the way， Andrew。

 people complained that peace at fight is too hard。 I， I just blamed you guys。5。than five， right？

Yeah， they had the chance to take a look。I said that all complaints can go straight to you guys。No。

 but I told them that I really like actually the piece at that。 I think it's very interesting。Okay。

 so。Okay， so the point is that this protocol， what it does， it's a way to prove。

That C of x is is some output。 we'll talk about all the parameters later。 So why don't now just。

You know， think of it as an attractive proof for provinging correctness of any low depth circuit。

And then I'll tell you the only ingredient that comes into this protocol is the subject protocol。

 That's the only thing that this protocol will consist of。Okay， I mean， many some checks protocols。

 but that's all。So now I want to show you the protocol， the G careR protocol。Okay。So the first step。

 both the proof and the verifier do。Or you can assume with loss of generality that that's the circuit。

Let's assume that the circuit。 So this is kind of， if you want an assumption， assumeoo。That C。

 first of all， is layered。And what I mean by layered， actually， when I say depth D。

 what does that mean is a question。 So when I mean it's， when I say it's layered。

 I mean it's a deform。It has kind of depth here D。And。Gate。

Takes the input it takes is from the layer below it。 Okay。

 so each gate here has two children in the layer below。

 Each gate here has two children from the layer below。 Okay， so it can be that this。

Gate takes as input a wire from here。And that's with El of generality because you can always add dummy layers and it will blow up the depth from D to D squared。

 So there is cost。But you can always add kind of dummy layers and make sure that， you know， if。

 if before it took a input gate from here， you just kind of propag it by adding dummy dummy until it's here。

 And then you add it from the layer below。Okay， so that's withal so it's layer。Okay。

 so assume C is layered。 It has fanin。Two， so each gate。Takeakes only has two children， not more。

And if it has many children， you can use partition at too many gates。Okay。

 so if you have a and with children， you do and basically， you make it a tree of of ans。

 Or if you have a or of an children， you make it a tree of os。 Okay， so again。

 this is without loss of generality。And。And the third thing is we want to think of is what we call as arithmetic。

Which means the gates it has is only addition。Add gates and multiplication gates。Mau。So basically。

 you do additional multiplication， basically。In。Gft。Which is just。

A fancy word of saying you do audit multiplication Ma2， yes。Why doesn't the output change？Yeah。

 it does。 You're right。 It does。 It goes from D。 why does it change。No。

 you're saying you can do maybe without changing it by just adding， yeah， you're right。

 You don't need to change the D。 Sorry， you don't need to just add dummies until the top。

 You're right。 These doesn't change。 Thank you very much。 Yes， good。O， so D doesn't change。

 so you can assume it's layered and the child goes from on below。

 It just adds to us like a little bit more gateits， but it doesn't matter。You soon find fan in two。

 Again， it adds a little more gates， but doesnt and changes the the depth by log because you need kind of this and you replace each。

Fan in N by like a tree。 So the depth is gonna be log n or log S。 So it changes the depth by log S。

 But that's all going to be anyway eaten up by the parameters there。

And now we assume that that gates are additional multiplication。

And that's kind of also the of general generality， because addition and multiplication math are complete。

 So， for example， if instead you had and。Of A B， then this is just equal a times B。

When you do matter，s the same。 If you had A or B， then it's just。A plus one。 sorry， if you had a。

 sorry， that's not what I'm meant to say if you had not a。Then it's one plus a。Mau。

And these are known to be mod like and and not are complete。 So whatever you do。

 there's a way to change its addition multi location。

And the reason I made it arithmetic is because I'm going to use the subject protocol。 So I'm kind of。

 that's kind of the idea that I'm going to use the subject protocol， the subject protocol。

Asume some algebra。 You have a polynomial。 Now here， there's no polynomial at all。 Like there's no。

 this is just a proving the correctness of some circuit。Ccuit is not a polynomial。

 it an arbitrary circuit。Okay， so we're gonna kind of。Put a polynomial in there somehow。Okay。

So that's my assumption。Now。哎。One second。哎。Okay， now finally。

 we're going to assume actually let me put it up there again。

 I'm going to assume this is just for simplicity of notation。 Well。

 everything you use just for simplicity。😊，But I'm going to also assume that the number of gates in each layer is the same。

So let's of assume actually， each gate has S sorry each layer。Has exactly S gates。So。Each。Lalayer。

Haads。S gates。So now the number of gates is like H times D in the worst case。 But again。

 we pay polylogin and you know， the prover I didn't， I'm not trying to optimize。 He's like polylys。

Okay， there was way to optimize this。 I'm giving you the simplest example。

 This can all be and has been optimized。 But I'm just giving you kind of the vanilla。Conion。

 the easiest construction。 Okay， so now basically， I assume that the number of gates in each layer is the same。

And it's S。 and moreover， let me assume that this S。It's like two to them。

The reason I want to it's a power of two。 The reason I want to assume it's a power of two is because then I can denote each。

 I can label。 this is， this is。I can label。Each gate。In each layer。Bye。An element in 01 to them。

And that's going to be useful for me。And， again， this is just this is a factor of two in the number of gates。

Okay， so everything is still a polys。Okay， so all these are kind of simplicity assumptions for me。

Okay。Now， the protocol。Where are the some？O。So。The way any questions before we start the proof。

 everyone clear what we're trying to do。Yeah， we're trying to do an interactive proof or proving correctness of some circuit。

 yes。Just Guwa field。 It just means you do addition and multiplication。 Mau。 It's。

 it's just a notation for the Gawa field with two elements。But yeah， you can ignore it。

 It's just additional applicationplication Ma2。O， later， we'll think of it as a field。 So you know。

 we'll need some algebra break structure。 So I'm writing it。 But if you can ignore it for now。Okay。

 great。 So how does the Gca protocol work。So let's first recall last time I gave you an intuitive way of doing the GCR protocol。

 and the intuitive wave said， let's look at C。Then put here is x， x1 of the X N。

Let's say it's 01 to n。The output， the prover claims the output is B。And the verify needs to get。

 needs to check。One way to do that is the fairifier size， I don't believe the output is B。Give me。

The two children， the value of the two children。The verifier will check consistency。

 So if it's a multi multiplication， I'll check that the value here time。 the value here is B。

And if it's an addition gate， you will check that the value here。 plus the value here is B。Okay。

If any of these checks do not pass， of course， the verifyifier rejects you immediately。😡。

So if the prover cheated here， one of these are false。😡，Which one。

 the verifyifier doesn't know which one is false because he didn't compute the circuit。

 He just know wonder if this is false。 One of these are false。So what we said last time。

 he can guess which one is false。 So he's going to guess， you know， randomly， maybe this is false。

And then with probability half， you guess correctly， it was a random guess。

Maybe it' probably better than half have。 Maybe they're both false。

 but at least one of them is false。And then you ask the provever， give me the two children。And again。

 if this was false， one of the children must be false or the verify would be already rejected。

He's going to guess which one。 Maybe this one is false。And this way。

 we continue until we reach an input。And if every time the verifier was able to guess。Correctly。

 where the false one is， If the ver if the prover is cheating， then he caught the prover。

 Then the prover is caught。 what is the probability of that happening so the sun is？😮。

You accept with probability。😊，One minus1 over2 to the D。

Because you need to every time guess correctly where the false thing is。So this is very close to one。

 So you'll catch him。This is the probability that you'll catching， which is tiny。Okay。

 so we don't want to do that。What we want to do。 and that's basically what's happening in the subject protocol。

 what we want to do。As we want to check a way to say if this is not correct， if this is incorrect。

We want to come to it。A value in the layer below that's not corrected with high probability。

Not only lose verbal to half。 If we lose half each time， it's terrible。We want to say this is false。

 we reduce it today layer below， that's false with very high probability。Like much higher。

 it's false， like it's true， it probably much smaller than1 over d。

So that then when a union bound over the D。😮，It won't affect us。Okay， so again， what we want。

 we want to say， we want to reduce it to a value in layer below such that if this is false。

This must be false with very， very high probability。😡，The question is， how do we do that？😮，Now。

 I want to point out。We succeeded in doing that for the subject protocol。

So let's recall the sumk protocol and let me now use slightly different notation for the sumtk protocol。

 Actually， maybe I'll go here。I dened pretty generally last time。

Let me know for the sake of ease of notation and also。Just simplicity。

 let's think of the subjecttic protocol where we're trying to prove that the sum of some low degree polynomial and B1 up to BL is equal to some value V。

Over B1 up to BL in 01。So last time we said it can be an arbitrary set。

 the element we sum over some H， some。 let's just talk about the Boolean cube。 okay， for simplicity。

So what is the sum check， there is some F， which is this F is low degree。

And lets me call degree D in each variable。And now the prover wants to convince the verifier。

That if you sum over these2 to L elements， you get V。

But the verifier doesn't want to run in time 2 to0。He doesn't want to sum all these two to elements。

And now what， what's again， the subject the。Basically， the verifier wants to ask the prover， oh。

 you clean up the sum of everything is we？😮，Give me the sum。I want to check。

 so he can ask him he can ask the prover， give me the two children。 What I mean by the two children。

 Give me the son。Well， this is0。B2 up to BL。Let me call this V0。And give me V1。

 which is the sum where this is 1。😡，I'm going to check。That V0 plus v1 is v。

 which otherwise I'm going to reject you because that's what it should be。😡。

And now what does the verifier do， He doesn't take this or this to continue because then。

We probably have。HeHe loses。 Maybe one of them is correct。 actually。 So maybe here you lie。

 Maybe the prove line here。 The sum is not V。But when he gives V0 and V1。

 maybe Vzi0 is correct and V1 is false。😡，Now， if he chooses v 0。

 he's out of luck because now the prove needs to prove a true statement。

 And thats it just follows the protocol。So it's not good for the verify to choose one of them because then he loses with property half。

 He's out of the game。And this happens every round。So if he chooses， oh。

 either vi or we won't probably have。And then we continue with like L -1 variables。 And again。

 he chooses。One of the two children probably have， and we continue and so on。

He will be accepted with probability。 He will be rejected， probably one over2 to the L。

 which is tiny。So how what did the subject protocols do， They said， no， no。

 no Im not going to ask for his Vis or V1。For a random tea。In the field。

 So here the F is over some field。And now I care about kind of F。G and B2 up to be O。So basically。

 and if you think of F as being low degree。If one of them is。

 if he checks consistency with Vz R and V1。And if one of them is false。

 which we know one of them is false。It means that what he gets here is not the correct polynomial。😡。

Or sorry。 Yeah。 So here he gives him like， basically F。Empty。B2 up to B L。

Which is not the correct polynomial。And if it's not the correct polynomial and a random element in T。

 it's going to be incorrect with very high probabilityvolity。So the probability that you lost。

 the verifier lost， and it's correct。😡，Is only B over the field size。So now the verifier。 So this is。

Correct， which is bad for the verifier。Probability at most。D over F。The degree of the polymial over。

 Now， think of this being very， very large。So with very， very high probabilityity， its， it's good。

 It' still， it's still bad。And now we want to do that for the GCR protocol。呀。😡。

That's exactly what we're going to do。 That's precisely what we're going do。Okay。

 so what we're going to do， We're gonna。So we want to kind of。Convert。

Like the elements here to somehow load grip polynomial。Yeah， that'。

 And then we can maybe use the sum。So let me tell you now how this is done。 But basically。

 you're right。 That's exactly what we do。we take a finite field。 We can think about it over Z P。

 a a large prime。 So let me explain this。So what a prover does is first， the prover computes。

The probe actually computes the circuit。 First of all。

 case it computes the value of all the layers of the circuit。Okay， so and let me denote。

So let's denote the output layer， this is let's call it layer0。😊，And this， let's call layer D。

 the output。Okay。Now， what the prover will do， he will compute for every layer， the bits here。

so denote by V， that's the value of all the elements。😊，I like the value of the gates in y in layer I。

Okay， so VI。You can think of it as going from 01 to the m， because which is the size of this。😡，S。

 like the number of gates in the layer。And for each game。You write the value。0ero or one。Okay。

 so the prover， he computes the circuit。 And for every layer。

 he basically writes like all the S values。Of the value of the gates， the S gates in that layer。

And we can think of this list of size S。As a function， give me the label of the gates。Of the gate。

 I'll tell you the value of that gate。Yeah， again， we have as we assumed recall with Alice of Generality。

 that we have each layer has exactly S gates。😊，And if you had lesss just add dummy gate 0，0，0，0，0。

 okay。And now what we do， we think of the prove computes。For every layer I。

 he computes the value of all the gates in that layer。 So it's a string of length S。

And we'll write it。You'll see why I'm writing it。 I could write it as a vector of length S 0。

1 vector，0，1 to S。But I choose to write it， because I'm gonna。Make it load。

 I'm going to put out the brain。 I choose to write it as a function。That takes its input。

 a string of length M。 That's a description of a gate in that layer。

 and the output is the value of that gate。Okay。So the prover computes all this。Good。No。Somehow。

This was a， you can think of this。 what I would like to do， I want to think of this VI。😮。

As I know it's defined only zero1 to them。But I want to think of it as a low degree polynomial from some finite fields F。

That's how I want to think of it。Okay， and that's precisely what I'm going to do。

 I'm going to define。What is called the multiline extension。 So compute。Or let。

I'll define what this is。 Let me call V Tilda。And this is。The multiline extension。

 which I'm going to define next。Of V I。Okay， what is the multi linear extension， It's a polynomial。

 Now it's a polynomial。That's multi linear。Okay， so let me just define what the multi cell definition。

在。Mulilline extension。Don't by ML LE。Of some。Function V goes from 01 to the M。To 01。

 And this is any function。 You can think of this as any vector of length to the M。😊。

With elements in 01。 this is an arbitrary function。 There's no algebra here。😡，Yeah， think of it。

 It's like the value of the layer， all the values in the layer， arbitrary bits01。

The multi linear extension of this function。😊，Is。他。Unique。Mulilline polynomial。

Denoted visual denoted by Tilda。😮，From F to M T F。 Now， what is this F， So we say the multiex of V。

With respect to F， theres some field。Take some field。So take a sequence of 2 to M bits。Take a feel。

The multi linear extension of V with respect to F。Is the unique multiline polynomial。Such that。😮。

V Tilda， and if you。Restricts it to01 to the M， it's exactly V。Okay， so basically， what I did。

 I really extended it。I have V defined and 01 to them。I just， I keep these values。

 but I define it over a bigger field。 So every field has element 0，1。

 That's part of the definition of a field。And now take a field， for example。

Additionalplication mod P， where P' is a large prime。 That's an example of field。

You can take a very large prime。And let and take the detailed as the unique multiline。

 So it's linear in each variable。诶。Polynomial that agrees with V and the Boolean hypercube and its multilinear。

😡，So now you should ask me， you can ask， what do you mean defining。 How do you know that that exists。

 How do you know， a that there's a way to。To convert。Every sequence of bits here in our case。

 S bits or equivalently to do the M bit。How do we know that theres。

 we can extend it to multiline polynomial。 and how do we know that it's unique。

So it turns out we can， and it's unique。Okay， so I want to show you how this is done。Hey。

 wait one second。Here。😔，And now okay， so what's the plan？The plan is the verifier， the prover。

 he will compute。The values in each layer。He will compute the unique。

Mulillinear extension over a big field。So take a prime of， of size roughly like2 to the lambda。 Okay。

 so take a prime that yeah， it takes like lambda bits to represent。

And so the field has basically two to the lambda elements， each one representable by lambda bits。

And now he's going compute， he's gonna in his head compute the load degree extension。

 There are one more。 Okay， so， okay， so let me maybe write a theorem here。Theorem。For every V。

And every F。There exists a unique。Mtyline extension。We tellda。So have to end。For every X。

In F to the M。One can compute。V tilde of x。In time。Let's see2 to the M。He。Times。Poauly Laoff。

By the way， I'm assuming that the field， you can compute additional applicationplication in time polylo F。

😊，Okay， so actually， from now on， let me think of F。As being like two to the Lambda。

So you can represent an element in F by lambda bits。

 And let's say addition to occasion takes time poly lambda like。

The field where additionalplication might be。 Okay， that's easy to think about。

 So this will be Lambda。那。It will even be Otel de Lambda。So I guess。Okay， that's the claim。

 not only it exists， not only the unique。Low degree extension exists。😡。

But if you have the truth table， a V。Then you can compute it in time。 That's roughly the truth table。

 So the truth tables to them， and you pay some hotel de lambda。这。考虑了没。I think it's O Tilda， but。Hey。

 one second， okay， time then。Because， O， this is the time it takes to add or multiply elements in the field。

So now the question is， which field are you working with。

 And so I'm assuming that I'm working in like Mamat P。And then I can do it， kind of。In O tda Faim。

Okay， this is the time it takes。 Yeah， you can， okay， let me Ed is all is。Maybe lambda。

 let me just put poly Lada。 I don'。 I'm not doing。 It's the time to take to do additional location in the field。

Okay， okay， so now why am I doing this multi linear extension。 What is the idea。

 So I'm going to show you， I need to prove this theorem。 I'm going to show you that each V。

 there is a multi linear extension。 So polynomial that's linear in each variable。

And you can compute the you can compute the Vilde。That efficiently， basically the way you compute。

 I can tell you， the way you compute V tilde is it's like a weighted sum over all the elements of V。

So V is like a truth table of link to them。Vta an x。Is just weighted sum。 We'， we'll see that。 Okay。

 so we'll see， we'll prove that theorem。Okay， actually， before I， I so hold on let me。 see。

 Do I want to first。哎。Okay， let me first prove the theorem。

 and then we'll see how we use that for the G care protocol。But basically。

 the idea is that now each layer， I'm going to think of it as like each layer I。

I'm not going to think of it as just a list of S bits， which are the value of the gates。

I'm going to think of it as being associated with her polynomial。A multi linear polynomial。

And the GKR protocol will basically be a way。😮，Of reducing。

So the prover claims some value of layer I in some point in aftersteram， he says， okay。

 V Tilda at some point is some value Z。And what the GA protocol does， it does。

 it applies a subject protocol， basically， to reduce this claim to a claim about V plus1 tilde。

With a guarantee that if this was false， this will be false with high probability。

 not probability de。Because we're kind of in the extension。 and we have polynomials。

 So we have this kind of error correction like we did in the sum check。

Then we're able to go from layer I to layer I plus one， like we did before。

 but not because we're in the extension， we can do it with we can preserve the incorrectness。

 If it was incorrect， it will be preserved with very high probability and not only probability have。

That's going to be the plan。 We'll see that。But let's first， let me first prove to you this theorem。

Okay， so， okay， so proof。So I'm just gonna construct this Vilder for you。 Okay， so Vilder。An input。

Let me just make sure I'm consistent with the notation。X is， okay。We told that。And x。

 which is let me go by x1 up to x N。Is what？😮，I'm just going to be kind of。Brote force constructed。

 So it's going to be some。Over B1 up to BM。😡，Of the。B1， up to BM。Now， here's what I want。

The x's are bits。I want to get， if the x is are bits， let's say be1 up to BM。

 I want to get this exact B V B1 up to BM again， and I want to be multiline。So what I'm going to do。

 I'm going to multiply this。By the Delta function of。X1 up to X M。Kma B1 up to BM。

And let me tell you what this is。This，So these are just bits。

 That's you know just the bits of value of the layer。 Yeah， just the bits。

This is a multiline function。😡，That is and the hypercu。This is equal  one。

 If the x is are equal to B and 0 otherwise， and the hyper cube。Okay so。Let me let me write this X。

 Okay， so this， let me write it better。 So this， okay。

 so now let me just elaborate this is just the multiplication。Okay， so let me， maybe this is。

Equal to。If x。Is' it01？To them。And x is different than B。 You output put 0。

You output 1 if x is equal to B。And it's multiline。Okay。And so this is the definition。 this is equal。

 If I didn't say what it is outside the hypercu， I just said on the hypercube。If it's in 01 to them。

And it's different， I1 zero。If it's equal， N in the hypercube， because B is in the hypercube。

 I want one。And， and， and otherwise， I don't care。 It's multi linear。 Okay， so this is multi linear。

So now the question is， how do I do this， The fact that it's an extension is clear。

 because if you have。X， which is some B1 prime up to B and prime， you sum over all the B。😡。

The bees that are not be prime。The guy will be zero， so won't contribute。The B that is B prime。

 You get a one。 So you just get the V of B prime。 So it really is extended。Questions。Okay。

 let's look at the- so how do I define this kind？😮，The idea is very simple。

 so let me write Ka here so kind。An x1 up to X M。It's really like the multivariate analog of lag grandrange interpolation。

 That's all。 And we're focusing on the linear setting， which is even simpler。Okay， so B1 up to BM。

This will be the product。😮，Of the Uniivariate。X， I， B。

So how you can define it in a multiverter or Uniivariate。So this is I goes from1 to M。

 And now what is this going to be。 So again， I want if X is equal to the bit bit B I， I want1。

If it's a bit， but not， if it's1 minus B， I want 0。 and otherwise， and I want it to be linear。😡。

So though get this， I believe I do one。Minus X minus B。A plusxi times bi。

I think this is what that's the guy。 why， so let's see。If the X and B are equal。

 either of they're both equal and equal to 0 in which because of the 0， I get one good。😡。

Either equal or equal to1， I get minus-1 minus-1。Oh。Sorry， too。So again， if theyre both 0， then 0，0。

0 when I mean2， I mean X times bi plus X times B。😊，That's a different。 Okay。

 so if both of them are 0， everything is 0， this is all0。 So I get one like I want。

If X I and B are 1， I get minus1 minus1 plus2。😡，Goes away。 I get one。

If one of them is0 and one of them is one。Then here I get minus1。1 minus minus1 is 2。2。

 but then I subtract。 I， I add -2 because this is gonna be -1， because they're different。

So I indeed get that this thing。It has the property that I want that if X I is equal to B， I get1。

 and if X I is 1 minus B， I get0 and chi is multiline。Because you can see。F near each variable。Okay。

So good So I even showed you how I can sort this be tilda。And now you're saying， how do I compute it。

 Let me tell you how you compute it。 You sum over。 So you want to compute the V in some input X。Well。

 you sum over all the B1 of to BM。 I assume you have this truth table。O， in our。

 you know all the V be1 of to BM in our setting， this truth table or this V and01 to n will just be the value of the gates in layer I。

Cause two of them is like the number of gates。So it's just going to be oblig gate。

 so you sum the value。😡，Of each gate， gatenot like labeled by B1 of toBM。

And then you multiply this gate by this sky function， defined as follows。

So you can see how much do you work？😮，Two to them times。How long did it take you to do this thing。

So it's like M。😮，Times this chi linear， so basically n times poly Lada。😊，Okay， which is what we。

I have there。Okay。I also promised uniqueness。That the multi linear extension is unique。

 but any questions about this so far。About the multiline extension。Good， not good。Give me。 Yeah。

 Okay， great。 great。 So now let's do uniqueness。 So uniqueness is actually pretty a。😊，Boring。

 so I'll kind of wave my hands。 It's in the notes。 But for uniqueness， what you do。Any idea。

 any guesses， how would you prove uniqueness？Okay， so yeah。Exactly， exactly。

 So how do you prove uniqueness， you say suppose there are two multi linear extensions。😊。

Subtract these two multi linear extensions。You'll get a polynomial that's zero on the hypercube。😡。

Okay， so why， because otherwise。There exists a polynomial。E multiline。Polynomial F。

Search that F on the hypercu。It's all zero。Right， because you have two differ。

 S for contradiction that there is two multi linear extensions。 So they agree with each other。

 And every point on the hypercu， it's V and the hypercu。Subtract them。So on the hyperc。

 they'll be equal， so you'll get zero when you subtract。But it's still multiline。

 And our assumption is that it's not0， because they're different。Now， I want to get a contradiction。

 I want to say if I have a multiline polynomial that is 0 and the hypercube， a0 everywhere。

How do I prove this？😮，Yeah。Exactly， so the proof is by induction。😊，On M， the number of variables。 So。

 for example， if M is one， let's do base case。 If M is one。Then， F of x。Is equal to A X plus B。

That it's just linear。 There's one variable。 So it's x plus B。And now， if it's on zero， it's 0。

And then1 at 0。 So when our x is 0。Its 0 means b equals 0。And one， it's also 0。

 which means a plus b is 0， but B was 0 already。 So a is also 0。Okay， so F is just zero。

And you can go from when you go from in the induction， yeah。O， in the induction step， basically。

 you assume you go from m 1 to n。The way you do it， you think of F。X1 of the Xm。

As being some polynomial A。And x1 up to x and -1。Times Xn。Plus， B。Of x1 up to X M-1。

 So the fact that it's multi linear means there are some。Moomials that have examined them。

 and some monoomials do not have examined them。 And there's no powers of doing anything because it's multi linear。

So I'm just going to。Rightrite F as the the all the annomials。 So the sum all。

 So the polynomial that do not have M in them。But or that have in them。 And then I take the M out。

 the X M out。And B is all the one that do not have Xome in them。

And now I do the exact same proof before。 I say， okay， when。

 let's look at what happened when X M equals 0， when X M equals 0， I'm just left with this。But。

 I know。That this is 0 when x m equals 0 and when the rest are in plus -1。😡。

So this is 0 and the hypercube。 But by my induction has hypothesis， this implies that this is just 0。

Because that's my induction hypothesis。 if it's0 and the hypercube is 0。And then I say， okay。

 what about when when X M is 1。 Well， this I know already is 0。And so you have this a plus the0。

 And again， the a over。 So you get the day over the hypercuba 0， which implies that a is 0。 So， okay。

 I said that really fast。 but the reason is that it's really boring。 Look at the lecture note。

 There's nothing interesting going on。Okay， it just uniqueness holds by induction。Yeah。とまちゃ。ella。

You can think of it as a combinatorial in those chosen arts。😊，Yeah， yeah。You're right。

 You can think of it as an no that， in some sense e。Yeah， I think of yeah， you're right。The。

 the multi linearness。 you're say the fact that， do you always have a multi linear extension。

こ uniqueくさ。It seems to be a result evolving。你有没份钱。Was。0。That you have enough son。Okay， I'm not。

 I don't。 I'm not sure。 Let me。Not answer。 take， take the fifth。And。Okay， any other questions。Okay。

 so where are we now？Where we are is the following。 So we said。

 let's go back to our G careR protocol。 And our GKR protocol。 What's going happen is so far。

 we didn't say what the verifier does at all。 We're just saying what the prover does。

 The prover computes the value of all the gates in each layer。 We call it V I from 01 to the M to 0。

1。 That's the value of the gates。 this。I。Value。Of all gates。In layer eye。

Then it computes the multi linear extension。😊，and now the way the GKR protocol will work。😮。

Is he will start by saying the prove will start with the claim。 and the claim is that on layer 0。

So a technical here。So the prover starts with a claim。 and the claim is that V and0。 sorry， V 0。

And that so remember， we padted everything。 We said each layer has S gates。

 but there's only one gate。 The rest is dummy。 Okay， so this claim is that V0 on some Z 0。Is B。

 This is the nonmi gate。The gate that actually has the output。 The rest are like just dummy zeros。

So he comes with a claim。 He claims that V， and you can think about its V tilda。

 even though this is not in the extension， The original one， it's not the extension， but。

This is extending。 So， and the hypercu， its。They're equal。

Now what we're going to do in the GCR protocol， I'll tell you what we do and then we're going to take a break and we'll see how to do after the break。

 What we're going to do in the GCR protocol is we we're going to have we're going to show how to go from we're going to show that for every I starting with I being zero。

We're going to show how to go from a false claim from a claim that V I and Z I。😡，Equal some value。

V I。To another claim。That V I plus1 tilde。And Z plus1。😊，Is equal V plus one。With a property。That。If。

This is false。Then。With high probability， not half。Probbil close to one。This is false。

So we're going to go kind of from a claim layer 0， false time of layer 0 to a false time of layer at 1。

 Then we'll go from a false claim of layer1 to a false limit in layer 2。

 Then we're going in this way until we reach the bottom。The bottom is the input layer。

So after all that， we get a claim of the form VD。On ZD。Is equal to some V D。 And this is false。

 I mean， this was false。With very high probability， continue to be false。 with very high probability。

 When I go to D， I'm still false。And this， the claim is the verifier can compute on its own。 Why。

 what is this V D， Let's remember。 it's some。Of the。D and B1 up to Bm。But mainlyly。

 you just sum the input values。This is just name values。Okay， with zeroes， but0 zeros。

 you don't care about。 So you sum the input values time this。Kite。诶。

So the number of summ you care about is just n。 The rest are。

 maybe you add the dummy gates and make it as。 We don't care The dummy gates are  zeros。

 So you don't care about them。 You just care about the N。Input like x 1， x2 up to X N。And for each。

B1 up to BM， which is a label of an input variable。 You multiplied by this。 This is very efficient。

 like。Because this kind is efficiently is polynomial time。 and the length of these things is a。

Is like a polylog， because M is going be like log n， basically。So basically， you compute this and。

 and you check on your own。 So the point is when you arrive to layer D。

The verifier can do the check on his own because he knows the input， the values of the input gates。

 He has the input gates。Now， you may think that he needs to work in time S because we set S gates。

But actually， after the first end gate， everything else is 0， he doesn't even need to go there。

 Like all he needs to computer to the sum。Of like the firstxiographic。This is up to。Like N， you know。

 the first nlectographic that correspond to the input， the rest of the zero we don't care about。

Because it's just zero， contributes0。Question。😡，What do mean by what do I mean by what， sorry？Oh。

 it's good， good， good。 So V I think， okay， So the circuit， the prover， he computes the circuit。😊。

So where do I the circuit， He starts with the input， the input， which is Xon of T M。

He computes layer1， which is one above the input layer and he gets values there。😡，That defines V1。

 V1。Kind of the first B， course the first gate is what's the value of the gate given this input。

What's the value of the second gate given the input。

 What's the value of the third gate and so on so forth。0，1， did I each， okay， each。Yeah， okay。

Element here， it's a label of a gate。Okay， so this。

 because we have this thing of it is an element from one test。So it says I want to know the J。

 the value of the J gate in layer I and how comes the value of that gate。It's， the circuit has 0，1。

 It's bits， because everything is Ma2。So how comes the value of that gate。Good， fantastic。

 Other questions。Okay， so let's take a couple minute break， and then we'll finish that you care。

 Basically， what's left is to show。This。Going from here to here， which is nothing but a subject。

By the way， I lied a little bit， but I'll explain the lie after the break。Okay， so。Let's finish the。

So now the main question is， how do we go？😮，I did it already。So responsible。 thank you。 Okay。

 So now the question is， how do we go， Let's say that proveover claims a false thing in layer I。

 We'll start with layer 0， but。We're going to。Do some protocol， basically a subject jack。

To reduce it to a false claim， Im layer I plus1。Now note。

 like it's very easy if the protocol was just without the extension because you just tell them okay。

Give me this， the value of the。Of the gates and the layer below。 And I'll choose one of them。

 But that gives you。A very bad illnessness。It's not clear how to do that in that extension。

How do you go from an a claim in the extended value of Lai to a claim about the extended。

Kind of V in layer I plus one。So it's not really clear， but the way you do it is using a subject。

 So let's actually do it。Okay， so you want to check。If V I plus1。Is that's kind of。V I plus one of。

Sorry。You want to check it Z I， your goal is to check it Z I。 You got a false claim。

 Z I is equal V I and Z I。 That's the claim。 You want to check it。How do you check it， So let's see。

 what is this thing？Let's remember what the extension is， is。Some。Of B1 up to BM。Of V， I and B。

This is B。Times Ki。Of ZI。And be。That's just the definition of extension right from over there。Yeah。

 so far so good。What is VI？What is V IB， Now， this B is not in the extension。

 This is actually in the circuit because I'm a hypercube。 So this just。

Is that this be is just a label of one of the gates。What is thisSo what is this VIP well？

This gate was an addition gate。Then it would be， so this is what？Some of B。

This B was a multiplication gate。Then we would have some。Of aim。

Let me make sure I'm consistent with the notation。W1。W2， these are gates。😮，In layer I。

In layer I plus one， sorry in layer plus one， the question is。I there a multiplication。

 if there's a multiplication gate between B， W1 and W2。😡，This is in01 to M。So let me denote by mal。

 this is one。😮，If there's a multiplication gate。Between gate B and layer I。😡。

And gate W1 and W2 and layer I plus1。If there exists a multiplication gate。

 then you just have here V plus 1 of W1 times V plus1 of W2。 That's all you have。And then times this。

 but hold on on me but。It may not be a multiplication gate， and it can be an addition date。

In which case， you have。Let me denote it by Tilde， even though this is this is。And the hypercube。

But you have V plus1 of w1 plus。VI plus one of W2。And all this。Times this guy。So， basically。

I'm just saying we need to verify this thing。This extension。What is this extension。

 It's just a linear combination。Of the value of the gates。What are the value of the gates in layer I。

 Well it's either a sum of values of the gates of layer i+ 1 orplication。Each value here is a sum。

Of two gates below or multiplication of two gates below because we assume each gate is multi as a multiplication or additionion。

So this is what we have。Now， if you look at it， this is very much looks like a subject。

So what is this， Let me write it。 This is。S and B。 And then W1 up to W 2， W 1， W 2，01 to the M。Times。

 basically a。This pull it on， okay， times。F。Of B， W 1， W2。 Now， let me write what F is。And。Oh， shoot。

Okay， let me write E is here。Where app。Is just。This。eitherith。Mot。

Either there's a multiplication gate between them。In which case I have VI。Plus 1 W1 times V I plus 1。

 W 2。Or there's an addition。In which case？I have。VI plus one。W1 plus V1 plus W2。

And all this is times this funny chi， this Z is fixed。 we started with and B。呀。😡，Okay， good， good。

 good， good， very good question。 Why are we doing both additional multiplication， Because okay。

 you can do one of them if you assume that in this entire layer。

This entire layer only has addition gates。Or this entire layer has only multiplicationation dates。

If you assume that。Then you can have only mal or addition。 But in general。

 and you can assume that actually by， you know， with all of generality。 But I didn't assume that。

 And in general， what will happen。You may have you sum over， so there may be。Like some B。

Some gate in layer I may be connected to layer I plus one with a with malt。

 and another B will be another gate will be connected to layer I plus one with a mo with an ad。

So option number one is to say let's test some generality that each layer has only multigate multiplication or only addition games。

If we do that， then we just need one of them。I didn't assume that in which cause I have both。

 And you can assume that with all also generality by just kind of moving things。

 kind of converting every layer to two layers。 First。

 you do all the mouth and then you do and just copy thread and then do all the addition。Great。

 great question。 Thank you。Okay， and again， let's just say the add malt。 Let me just wear malt。

This is I。Mult I， B， W1，W2。Is equal to one。If。Gate B in layer I。It's connected。To gate。W1 and W2。

And zero otherwise。This is not an extension。 Okay， this is on， if you think of multi I in B， W1， W 2。

In 0，1 to the 3M。Like MMmm。Okay， so this mal just says it's one if there is indeed a multiplication gate going from the gate labeled by B to the two children and 0 otherwise。

And now， but okay， so now， okay， so now what we have， this is multi linear。 This is multi linear。

What about these add amount， Like that's not。So what we do。

 we take the multi linear extension of these two。😡，And now you can say， wait， okay。

 so we take them multi。 They're defined。 We're going to take them multi linear extension。Okay。Now。

 what the verifier does， he says， look， you claimeded the values V。😮，And layer I。

 like and the extended point V I， the values V I。 Okay。

 but I can another way to say it that you claim that V I。Is this sum over B and W of this。Basically。

 you're saying that VI。Is this？But this F is low degree。O， this F。Is actually degree。

 Let's see This is degree 1 and W。 This is degree 1 also， and this will also be degree 1。

 So now you have like degree 2。Because W1 appears both here and here。 So you have degree 2 in W 1。

 You have degree 2 in W2。Fine， but we can still do sum check。 This is a low degree。

 It really is that's called sum check。 We have a sum of this low degree polynomial。

Let's do some check。Great， so we're going to do the sum check。 perfect。 Let's do the sum check。😊。

After the sum check， da da da da da da da we're left with a claim about one point。

 So after we do the sum checkck。 So note， we have like 3M variables。

So it's going to be3M kind of rounds， but M is log S， so it's okay。And。

 and we're going to do this per each depth。 we're going everything goes with the depth because we're going to go kind from layer I to layer I plus1 to layer plus 2。

 So everything goes with a depth。But this is subject only over M M being log S。

 So that's going to be very efficient。 But at the end， the verifier needs to verify。And some point。

Let me call it Z I plus 1，0， Z， I plus 1，1。And Z。I plus 1，2。He need， we reduce it to one。

 So we had sum of F。But if you remember at the end of the subject。

 the verifier needs to ask F at a single point。So let me call this point， I don't know， Z0，1 and 2。😡。

Now， what does he do？He doesn't know F。 Re F is this monster。What does he do？Okay。

 so here's what he does。Moth。😮，Lo the Greek such not， let's say he can do it。Actually。

 that's exactly why the log space uniformity condition comes in。

So let's just assume he can do this and he can do this。😊。

It's actually a bit complicated for him to be able to do it alone。

 We cannot take the unique multilinear extension。 We need to take a little higher degree。

 or we do another delegation protocol for that。Let me not kind of get into the details of that。

 Let's just assume the ver if I can do this on its own。Okay， good。Now。This。

 he can do on his own that easy。 He knows Z I。 He knows B is like the Z the B is like the Z I 0。

 So he has that， and he can compute this on his own that's efficient。

What he's left with is he needs to compute two points。😮，VI plus 1 in one point， the ZI plus 11。

And at another point， too。Now you can be like， wait， wait， that sounds really bad because。

We started with needing to check one point in La I。We did this sumchat protocol。😮。

As the subject protocol， we got F。And like three points。Z0， z1， z2。I post one， I post one。

 I post one， I'm not writing it。Now what we， okay， we can compute this on our own。

 but now to check this， we need to ask the prover， hey， give us V plus1。And Z 1。 and give me V I。

Plus 1 and Z2。 so I can check。And then I have the guarantee that if he lied with very high probability。

 one of them is wrong。But， I have two。And that seems very bad because it seems like， oh。

 we started with one。And then we have two。 And next time we'll have 4。 And next time we'll have 8。

 It sounds like we're gonna explode with2 to the D。So that sounds really bad。Now here is the very。

 very simple observation。😊，Actually， okay， fine。 You have two points due two some checks。So actually。

 from each round to the next， we do two subjects。Now， you like why。

 this sounds bad because if we do two sum check and we start with two。

 each sum check gives us two points。We're going to get four points。So here's the observation。😊。

You do the two sum checks， but have the verifier use the same randomness in both sum check。Okay。

 now here here's the point。When we was some check。Of this F。

We're left with checking F at three points。These three points are exactly the verifiers randomness if you remember correcting with a sum check。

That may be hiding here。The verifier sends T 1， T 2， T 3， and so on， random。

 And then we need to very check the function in point T1， T 2 up to T M。

So at the end of the sum check， we need to check F。

And three points and these points are determined by the verifier's randomness。So if we started。

With two points， maybe Z1 and Z 2 equals V1 and V2。😡，So we have two。

 were gonna to do two some checks。 F， We're going do two sum checks。And we have to the verifyifier。

 use the same randomness for both。Okay， so you give me T。

 Im the prover will need to apply the same T in both the subjects。

So each time the verifier gives them one randomness。For both the protocols。Then what will happen？

At the end， he'll have。The same Z points。Now， what are these Z points， I mean， this one。

 this one is different， but this approval computes。The ver computer on his own。

 This is different because he started with Z 1 and Z2。But this， he can compute on his own。

These are going to be the same。Because。These W1 and W2 are Z1 and Z2。😡。

Are really determined by the verify random coin tosses。So basically what we're going to do。

 we're going to convert。2 queries。 we start with one query in layer 0。

 but then we're going to go and convert to two queries， like two。

So we're going to start by assuming by having a false claim in layer 0。

And then we're going to convert it to two claims。In layer 1， one of them is false。

And then we're gonna convert two claims in layer 2。

 one of them mis false with very hyper probability and so on and so forth。

 We're gonna go from two claims all along until we hit the the the leaves。 Okay， I'm out of time。

 Next time we're gonna see how to go from this interactive degree D b， bh。

 bh to like what we call snarg。 And it's really I think it's， it's really nice。

 So that's gonna be on Wednesday。😊。