# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p01 6.5620 Lecture on 9⧸3⧸2025 (Wed).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p1-

P on the back？You see the board？great， am I writing too small， you think？你好的。Oh the reflection。Yeah。

 maybe we can turn off this light。Like， it seems， don't you feel like， I don't know this。

The problem is the reflection， right， you feel like it's reflecting on it， or maybe we can。Okay。

 that's a bit dark。😀Ha。😊，And maybe if you make the whole thing bright， yeah。

 that looks better and better， okay。回这。Do I call。Oh yeah， thanks。Thank you。And in general。

 if I forget anything or say something wrong， correct me。不亏。

So it's 105 so let's start so welcome this class is on foundations of cryptography so hope you're in the right place so before I start let me before we start with the bureaucracy and so on let me just start by telling you I think you're in for a treat I think the material that's going to be covered here is really beautiful really it's like I'm jealous of you you know。

😊，I remember when I learned this material I was like you know amazed so hopefully you'll enjoy it but before we start with actually fun part let me just say a little bit about this class so I'm Ya and Kaai I'm going to be your lectures we have two amazing Ts Andrew Aparna say hi。

😊，Right， the class website is here。 It has all the information。

 So everything you'll need to know is on the class website。 I hope that these lectures are recorded。

 This is why I'm wearing this thing。 And if assuming it works as soon as it's gonna be up。

 I'm gonna put in the website。 So hopefully shortly after lectures。

 you'll have access to the video if something was not clear and you want to kind of rewatch it。

 or if you're unable to come。 hopefully we'll have it。

 But I'm not sure you should count on it because it sometimes works sometimes doesn't。

 So I'll do my best， you know， to make it。😊，You know， whatever I can to make sure it works。Okay。

 so we're going to use Piazza for communication so any questions you may have。

 anything Piazza is a great way to communicate with us。

 this is the password you'll need to enter to join。So please use that。

 You can use it in a private mode。 So only the me part Ands here， or you can use it in general mode。

 We are， you know， transkins， you know， can。Gained from the questions and answers as well so it's up to you well use we'll have PSAT。

 we'll use great scope for the submissions and this is the password for great scopepe and again all the information about how you submit the PSATets that should be in lateE and so on it's all on the website so just look at the website and look at all the information。

😊，About grading。 So we will have a midterm and P sets。 The midterm is going to be an in class exam。

 and it's going to be 40% of your grades。 Okay， it will be kind of no notes。 You， you'll sit。

 So you should need to prepare。 I'll try to make it。 you know， only。The material that I covered。

 it shouldn't like you shouldn't be like a genius to succeed。

 And you just need to understand the material。 That's the hope of the midterm。

 just to make sure that you followed in class。So that's going to be 40% of the grade。

 and then 60% is going to be on PSets。 So PSet are going to be more challenging。

 Okay it's not just ensure that you fall in class。 it's actually to make you think so it's gonna be different than the actual exam it's going require perhaps some questions may require some creativity or some thinking and it should be know hopefully enjoyable and fun we'll try to make the questions know interesting。

 we're gonna have five PSs but only four of them will count towards the final grade and we'll take the best four you have so the hope is you'll do all five and we'll just take the best four and in terms of collaboration you can collaborate on PSet and I would encourage it actually because I think you gain a lot from learning from one another but let's keep it to small groups so the collaborations will be in groups of three or less。

 and each though need to write your own PSet and that's very important。 So you know you meet you。

Brainstorm， you can share ideas， and then you each go to your separate ways。

 not take pictures or anything。 and just write everything in your own words。

 That's really how you learn。 Okay， if you write things in someone else's words。

 it defeats the purpose of learning。 And hopefully you're here to really enjoy and learn the material。

😊，So， you know， you can bounce ideas on one another。 But at the end， write it on your own。

 And that's really when you feel， you'll see if you understood or not。 because when you go， you know。

 home and kind of where it is and write the material， try to write up your solution。

 that's gonna be where you kind of notice what it is that you did did not understand。

 And then you can go back you know， to your friend group and try to kind of。You know。

 ask them if you have any， if you don't understand anything。 okay。

 but it's really important that you sit and write everything in your own words。 that's again。

 when kind of， you'll see if you understood or not。Okay。

 so that's basically what I want to say about。The administrative thing， did I miss anything。

 That's important to say office hours will have So okay， I don't have a specific office hour。

 I can put some， but if you want to ask me questions。

 just email me and you know'll set up a meeting and every time after class I'm here。

 I'm happy to stay so you can think of like after class also as kind of I'll wait to see if anybody has questions or needs you know mean anyway So I'm gonna to be here every every Monday and Wednesday after class for questions And then you know if you want any other time。

 just email me and for our partner and Andrew， I don't remember your office hours by。Okay。

 Tuesday and Thursday 4 to 5，30， and the room is being arranged。

 and it's gonna to appear on the website。 So go to the website。

 The information should be there about office hours as well。 but we will have office hours。

Anything else？What。😮，W are own。Yeah， yeah， yeah。 Okay。 So good。 So the first piece said， by the way。

 will be out on Friday。 that's Friday and。😊，Just to make sure you're well prepared for this class where we have two handouts。

 one on probability theory and one on complexity theory， these are taken from prior years as well。

 and it's very important that you read these handouts Actually it's part of the pieceet just you know the pieceet you'll have like a question read this handout and answer this question。

But I really think it's important for you to read it because that will give you an indication what if you are missing some prere or forgot。

 you know， which is very common for me at least it will， you know， these are kind of the。

The things we rely on。 So read them。 And if you don't remember anything。

 that's your time to kind of go back to some sources and try to refresh your memory because whatever is in the handouts are things that we assume。

 you know。Okay， so， you know if you have now it's first week of class。

 it's a good time to go and refresh your memory and the things that we're sewing。 Okay。

 so there's gonna be two handouts there。 So it's a good time to start looking at。 And again。

 it's going to be part of your Pet， which is going to be out on Friday。

 and the pieceet are going to come roughly every two weeks。

 give or take Sometimes during the midterm you're gonna have it's going to be spaced out more。

 but roughly every two weeks。😊，Okay， did I I'm good to go。Oh， yeah， right， right。

 There's another right。 So there's number， another number theory handout。

 but it's going to be relevant later in the course when number theory comes in。

 that's going to be kind of after I don' know a month or so， maybe less， yeah。Yeah。

 everything is going to be。 Yeah， the handouts are into website， yeah。Sure。Any other questions。Okay。

 so so great。 So let's start。 So what is this class about。

 So this class really is about magical concepts in cryptography。

 So what we're going to see during this class is really things that are kind of on the face of it。

 seem like they should not be possible at all。 And it's really magic that we can do it。😊，For example。

I may not know who you are。 I never met you。 we were never in the same room。

 and yet I can send you a digital message。That any adversary who looks at this message has no idea what's sitting。

 what's written in it， but you can decipher it。 You can decrypt it。Is that command。

 I never talked to you。 I mean， you one thing that， okay。

 if we met and agreed on some secret key and some secrettypher， and then we， you know。

 we're in different places， then we can communicate。

But I'm going to show you how we can communicate securely without ever meeting secretly。

 So everything we say is always public to the adversary。😊，Kind of it seems like impossible， right？

m another thing is an example。 I'm going to show you。 We're going to see how to。

How I can prove to you。😮，That something is true。😮，Without revealing any information about why。

So I can prove to you that a theorem is true。While giving you no information whatsoever about why it is true。

 You're just convinced it's true。 That's the only thing you learn。How like it seems unbelievable。

Yeah， another example， I am going to show you how you can take any proof。Very， very， very long。

And出 it。The few hundred， you know， bytes。Yeah， so all these things really seem like。You know。

 it's impossible and by the end of this class。You'll be able to and do all of these things and many more that I didn't mention now。

So how does this work， How do we do this。And so the subject of cryptography is very wide。

 it contains kind of very applied style cryptography and a more theoretical or foundational cryptography we're going to kind of stick to the foundational parts。

 theyre more applied classes at MIT offered as well。

 like 65610 is like the more applied and they also have an undergrad version of like。😊。

Applied cryptography and security。 So we have others。 but this one is going to be the theory version。

And the way we achieve basically these kind of magical concepts。

 I would say there's kind of three ingredients。😊，And that will be kind of the magic sauce that we will follow when whenever we want to kind of。

Get anything interesting， whether it's these ur knowledge proofs or this encryption。

 public key encryption or whatever it is， we use kind of the following sauce。 Okay。

 so the first thing is definition。 That's kind of going to be very important。😊。

And we're going to see it already in this book today。啊。So when when I say definition， when it says。

 what is it that we're trying to。Obtain， and it's very tricky， as you'll see in this class。

 because what do you mean what we're trying to obtain。 So what you want to say is what is our goal。

 Okay， what's the goal， So maybe the goal is to， you know， communicate securely。

 But what does it mean securely。The diversityary doesn't learn anything。

 What does it mean doesn't learn anything。And also， what is the diversity's power， What can he do？

So all these things kind of defining these concepts are very， very important。

 And it's very easy to get that wrong。 Okay， you define something。 and then you realize， actually。

 it doesn't capture。 maybe you define the adversity in a way。

 It actually realize actually real life that adversary has much more power。😊。

That we didn't kind of we didn't think about。So actually， coming up with a right definition。

Of the primitive we're trying to construct。Is really， really important and highly nontri。 And often。

 like throughout history， we got it wrong and had to correct ourselves。Okay。

 so that's kind of the first ingredient。The second ingredient is going to be。Hardness assumptions。

So as we will see， kind of right off the back to already kind of。Next week。And even today， actually。

 by then， the class， hopefully， that actually we don't， we we do not know how to do。

Croptography without assuming something。Okay， in order to get anything like to get the magic。

We need to make assumptions。Now， what kind of assumptions， What do I mean by make assumptions。

 What we typically assume is some kind of hardness assumption assumption that something is hard。

 Okay， some computational problem is hard。 One example is like hardness of factor。N。

 the assumption is， if I give you， let's say， a number n。

 which is a product of two huge primes P and Q。It's hard to find P And Q。That's an assumption。

 It's some kind of hardness assumption。 Okay， that it will take you a really。

 really long time to factor。Is it true， I don't know。

 Maybe someone tomorrow will come up with a very efficient factoring algorithm。

But we assume it is hard。Okay， so it's an assumption we make。

 Okay and this is kind of a number theory type assumptions。

 but we have assumptions for various fields of mathematics。 today， the most common type is lattice。

Assumptions。Or more some code based， I would say。So this is just assumptions based on different type of mathematics and we'll see it as we go along in the class and the reason these became much more desirable is because the number theory ones are known to be broken with quantum computers and today kind of quantum computers seem kind of they seem close to home so people are kind of shying away from these type of assumptions and going to the what we believe is postquantum secure assumptions。

 so assumptions that that holds even with quantum computers。😊，Okay， but basically。

 the point is in order to succeed in doing some chpttography。

 we need to make some hardness assumptions and these hardness assumptions come from like assuming some mathematical problem is hard。

And we'll see what kind of mathematical problems kind of come up in cryptography。

And the last ingredient。And that's kind of very important is reductions。So what are reductions？So。

I make， I come up with I construct some cryptographic primitive。

 Let's say a secure encryption scheme， which I didn't define what it is yet。

 but some cryptographic primitive。And then I tell you， oh， it's secure。😊，Under some assumption。

 let's say if it's hard to factor， then this is secure。Okay， what does that mean。

So the way what that means is that。で。If you have the way we argue security。

So ab is a way to argue security。A proof security。And the way this is done is we say。

If I have an adversary。That breaks this scheme。 So either there exists in attacker， So if。

There exists in attacker。That breaks。The crypto scheme， whatever it is。Then。I can use this attacker。

To break the assumption。Okay， then。I can use there exists a reduction。That uses。Attacker。

To break the assumption。Okay， so that's basically kind of how。Like。

 I've bread and butter cryptography。 Okay， we come we say， okay， this is a goal。 I want to define。

 I want kind of a new cryptographic primitive。 And this is the idea of what I want to achieve。

 Like I want to achieve your knowledge proofs。 Okay， how do I define it。

And then I want to construct it， but I can't construct it like， I need to assume something。

 So I need to kind of I construct something under some assumption。 And then I prove。That indeed。

 my scheme satisfies the definition， the security definition。 why， because I say if it doesn't。

 if there exists attacker that breaks the scheme， then it means I can use this attacker to break my assumption。

That's kind of basically how we're going to construct and argue security about cryptographic primitives。

Okay， any questions？Before we start with our first cryptographic pivot。NoOkay， so let's go ahead。

 So our first。So today the topic of today's class is what's called perfectfect security。

What's better than perfect。 Okay， so this class is gonna to be perfect。 And then it's done。 Okay so。

 you know， life is not perfect。 today we're gonna to assume it is。

 but as you see by the then end of class， we're going to be done with perfect security and we're going to go kind of back to real life and we're going have an unperfect security。

 But for today and that where assumptions and so on are going to come in。

 But today we're still kind of we don't know anything about cry and we kind of you know in the land of perfect security。

 So let's see where we are okay。😊，So， you know， cryptography was used actually。

 for thousands of years。 You know， people there's ciphers that date back to you know。

 thousands of years ago。A，But A was only formalized。

Like there were definition and formal guarantees only in the late 40s or at least declassified。

 I should say， in the last 40s， and kind of the father of this kind of a。

 a formal formalizing cryptography is Claude Channon。😊。

And he has a very influential paper that was published in 49 about encryption scheme。

 So how do you define a secure encryption scheme。Okay， so that's kind of the first thing。

So how did Claude Channon define the notion of a secure encryption scheme？Okay。

 so here that's kind of the first definition。 Okay， I want a secure encryption scheme。

What does it mean the secure encryption scheme， It means I want to weigh。

To encode to kind of encrypt my message， S it to you。And you should be able to decrypt this message。

Yeah， that's kind of what encryption is about。And typically， know we share， at least historically。

 we share some key， so we meet， we agree in some secret key。

And then we go our way and now I have a message， I want to encrypt it to you。

 I use our joint secret key。I encrypt it and then knew with our key that we share， you decrypted。😊。

does that sound reasonable how you want to do encryption？Okay。

 so here is how Shannon defined this notion。 So he said an encryption scheme is associated with make sure I have the right notation not to confuse。

 Yeah， okay， so an encryption scheme。First of all， it's associated。With。It has a message space。

 what is what are our messages that are we thinking of sending each other。

 So there's a message space。Let me denote it by M。There's a cipher text space。

So they encoded or encrypted messages。Let me do all by C for Cyphert。And there is a key space。

So our secret keys that we share。And let me den note that by Kate。And。

And now an encryption scheme also has two algorithms。The encryption algorithm。

And the decryption algorithm。Oh， by the way， before。I did make it clear in the intro and I meant to。

Any questions you have throughout class， ask， never wait with questions。 Okay， questions are great。

 It helps you。 And more than that， it helps everyone around you。 So anytime you have a question。

Just ask't you don't need to wait， never wait for the then end of the class。

 office hours to ask your friends after class， you know we're here ask us questions okay。

 so anything I say that's not clear， just speak up。啊。Questions。Okay。

 so our encryption scheme consists of this message space， cpherex space in key space。

 and it's associated with two algorithms。😊，The first one is an encryption algorithm。😊。

That takes a key from the key space。And the message from the message space。

 and it output the ciphertex from the ciphertex space。And the second is a decryption algorithm。

And the decryption algorithm will take a keyK。Aside for text。See， and I'll put a message in。Okay。

 so here I take my message， I encrypt it。And you take thecipher tax， and you decrypt it。O， the first。

 okay， so what do we want from this encryption scheme。What's the first property you can think of。

Even before adversaries， what's the first thing that you would want this encryption to satisfy， yeah。

Exactly， you want to say so that's called correctness。First thing is。

When I encrypt something too you， you should be able to decrypt。Okay， what does it mean it means？No。

 for every king， no matter。Keep me shared。I no matter for every message。

No matter which message I sent you。If。When you try to decrypt the message， so we share the key。

 you use your key。To decrypt。My encrypted message。You should get back the message。Yeah。

 so that's just to make it usable， right， I would say if I encrypted a message N to。😡。

And you using your key， so I didn't encrypt it。 You would get them back。 Otherwise。

 we're not even communicating。Okay， so this is crackness。 How about security。

How would you define security。Tricky， yeah。Great， okay， so great。

 So that's indeed how O Shannon tried to define it。 So let me repeat because it's a great suggestion。

😊，If you don't know the key。And you don't hold a message。Then when you're give an cipher text。

 you shouldn't learn the message。Make sense。O， now let's break it down because you want to define it formally。

You don't know the key。 you're saying， well， well， the key， let's say is chosen randomly。

 So if the key is chosen randomly， you don't know anything about the key。

And you just see the cipher text。 That's what the adversary sees。 He doesn't know the key。

 So the key is random。 He doesn't see it。 He only sees the cipher text。

He should now learn the message。If he didn't know the message。

But what it mean if he didn't know the message， What if he knew have the message。哎呦我。I mean。

 if he knew the message， then after the Cy tech he still knows the message， of course。

And I was saying， if he didn't know the message， what does it mean didn't know the message？我。

mathematicalthematicly， how do you say didn't know the message。Yeah， not really clear。 So let me。

 but this is exactly what Shannon formalized。 So heres， so let me write here。 This is Shannon。

 It hast Shannon security。So this is。Shannon security。

Which said basically exactly what kind of formalized this intuition。 And what he said is， look。

That dark。I have some a priori。Information about the message。

 You may know that the message starts with the date or dear Sir。

 or you may have some information about the message。

But let's say he knows that the message comes from some distribution。 Of course。

 if he knows everything about the message， there is nothing to say。

But there's some unknown for him about the message。

 So let's say the message comes from some distribution。 So what he says， he said， for any。

Distribution。You call big N。Over the message space。And for every。诶。For every message， M。Inda。

Message spaces。What you want to say？Maybe the probability。that groceryary has some probability。

Associated with any end。 So he had originally has a probability that。From the distribution。

 if you sample something distribution， you get N。So he have some information， but you。

 he knows it came from some distribution。What Chaman wants， he says， you know。

 after he sees thecipher text。😮，He should still have the exact same distribution about him。

 so he didn't learn anything else this。Okay， so his definition says that the probability。That。

You get M。Condition after seeing an encryption。2。With K。Sorry， yeah， with K and。M。

Where here K is chosen at random from the key space。And also， it's a distribution over。M。

 here toss over M。This should be the same， so namely， originally， so after seeing a cipher text。

He does his posterior information。About the message is the same as the Fidenciia psychot。So namely。

 he didn't gain anything。From， from seeing a thepher text。

Let me write it better to make this more precise。 So for every distribution M， for every M。

 and for every site fort C。If you condition and see。And now you chose K& M such that。C is encryption。

Then these were the same。 Yeah， so basically， what happened。A random key is chosen。

A message was chosen from this distribution。And outcomes comes the taxi that risk sees C。

So he knows by C， he knows that the random key and the chosen message are distributed condition and C。

And now he needs to guess， what's the message。Same distribution as if he didn't get a separate tax。

So I really didn't learn anything。Like， it's perfect。 It can be better。

Questions about this definition。送。Let me give you another definition that I think of as being much more natural for me。

And it turns out that these two distribution， these two definitions are equivalent。

 so this is called Shannon security。😊，Let me give you another definition。This's called。

Indistinguishability， one second。Perfect and distinguishability。

 So here's another security definition。Which is called perfect。Indistinguishability。

is am I writing too small， too big if you can see it in the back。 Yeah， good。 Okay。

 so perfect in distinguishability says。That for any two messages。So let's see。

 let's say I I'm an adversary。 I wonder if you're sending M 0 or M1。😊，O， I think I'm very curious。

 Are you sending， Are you sending a message or you going to attack or you're not going to attack。

 That's what I want to learn。By think the Cyphert， I have no idea。Okay， so here's the definition。

For every message， two messages and0 and M1 from the message space。呀。This is capital， this is。

This is capital land。 So this is capital land。 So okay， let me say this again。

 So what's happening here。I choose a random key。And I choose apher。 I choose。

I sample a Cyphertax from this distribution。And with a random key。So basically。

 I sampled some random message。 I don't want to give it a name。

 I sample a random message from the distribution a random key。 and I give you a ciphertex。

The question is， what do you learn from thisciphertext？

And the claim is you learn nothing because for any message。

The probability that you'll guess that this was actually， you know， that's what's encrypted here。

Is the same。See the Cyphertext。So it doesn't give you any information。Great。Okay， so。Aim。Good。

 so here here's the perfect in distinguishistuishability says that for every two messages from the message space。

If you see encryption of M0。Or you see encryption November1， they look exactly the same， exactly。

Namely， let me write it formally for every M0 and M1 and for every ciphert。😊，The probability。

That encryption of K and M0 is C， this is。For a random key chosen from the key space。

This is equal to the probability。That encryption。Of key and M1。啊 isC。So， you know。

 you see them Cyphertex。 and you want to know， is it a Cyphertex then crypto M 0。

 or is it a Cyphertex then cryp M 1。And the answer is。

 you have no idea because the distribution of Cyphertexoantta M 0。

And the distribution of Cyphertex correspondingsine1 1 is identical。For every C。

 the probability of C here and the probability of C here is the same。So when you UC see a C。

 you have no idea if it came from M0 or M1。See see being a Cyphertex。Questions about this。Good。

 are these two related。 So the answer is these two are equivalent。

And that's what we're going to see next。 So for me， different people have different intuitions。

 For me， I find this definition much。Like conditional。

 conditional probabilitybilities always confusing。 I know。

 like the question is this M is this a fixed M， is this it。

 I find it much more intuitive to think about this definition。😊，Then distinguishability based。

 But what I'm going to show you next， and it's going to be kind of our first proof in class。

Is that these two definitions are really the same。Any scheme that satisfies Shanon security also satisfies indistinguishability。

 security and vice versa。So what we're going to do next？He。You go here。

Is to prove that the two definitions are equivalent。K so。Fem。Shannon security。Is equivalent。

Too perfect。Indistinguishability。Okay， before I prove this theorem。

 I want to say one more thing about the class。 so I'm going to try to put lecture notes for the class every。

Time before class， so the night before hopefully there should be lecture notes on the website。

 this is just in case you want to take a look before class to see what we're going to study。But also。

 I'm kind of。Following， so theres from prior years， last year， this class was not offered。

 but from 2023 and many years before that， it was offered。 Eino de Quintanaten often taught it。

 and he has great。 He doesn't have lecture notess， but he has a Power presentation。

 So it's going to be。Pretty close。 there's some divergence， but that's another source you can look。

 And then another one。 So there's a professor of Cornell Noa， and he has fantastic lecture notes。

 they're very kind of long and very， very nice。 So I really encourage you Min are going to be more succ than his。

 but I really encourage you to read his。 It's also he's funny。 He's a funny guy。

 it's nice to read his lecture notes。 So they're going be also you can you're been do from the Web page。

😊，And we're going to follow kind of his class pretty closely as well。 So you can see， yeah。前によってて。

Good， great question。 So now we're going to think of all these spaces as finite。Okay。

 you can think of it as 1，28 B or for now， when we're gonna to soon see a construction。 And then。

 yeah， so think of it as finite N bits for some fixed n。Like 120 bits or something。Okay， great。😊。

So ready to prove the theorem？Okay， so I'm going to go slowly through our class。

 we're going to start kind of not doing it super carefully because， you know。

 youll learn how to do it。 But for the first one， we'll do it very slowly。 Okay。

 so proof of the theorem。😊，So take let's start， so let's go this direction， meaning。

 suppose I have an encryption scheme that satisfies Shannon's security。

I want to prove that it satisfies perfect and distinguishability。Okay， so fix。Any encryption scheme。

With。Shannon security。We want to prove that it satisfies computation the indistinguishability based security。

So， a。Good， so how do we go to what So what do we need to do， So fix。Any M0， M1， and C Cyphert。

 so let me be more specific。Fix any two messages。Fix any。Two messages。And any ciphert。And。

 and we need to prove the indistinguishability， right， that you know， there this probability。

 these two probabil are equal。What do we know， we know this。😮，Their fabric distribution this holds。

What are we going to do， So let's take that。What can we do？

 So we know some constraintstrain about a distribution。We know， the fabric distribution。

The Cyphert doesn't give you any information。And we want to learn something about these specific M0 M1。

So what are we going to do？The only thing we can really do is fix the distribution。M。

 which is let's say half an M0 and half an M1。 You what else you need to relate it to the M0 and M1。

 So fix the distribution M。Such that with probability half。N gives you n0 and with probability half。

N is equal to M1。Now， what do we know？😮，We know。That for every C。This holds。

 so we know that for the C we have， what we know， we know that the probability。P m equals。

 let's say m0。Is what？Is the probability？Which is half， right， this is half。

Is the probability that N？Equals n0 conditioned on the ciphertex。😊，And。诶。啊。He。M equals C。Yeah。

 this is just what Shannon tells you the probability that you get M0 condition on the Cyphert。

Is the saying the probability without the Cyphert。 Now， the only thing we use actually in both sides。

 the only thing we use is base theorem。So by base theorem， this thing。

This another way to write it is the probability。That m equals m0。

And thisles was respect to the same end。Probability。That encryption。Of K， M M。And M0。Equal C。

Divided body。A probability that K with a distribution M encryption。Of K with a distribution。

 n is equal to C。Yeah， this I just did base rule， namely this conditional probability。

Is the probability that m equals M0 and this。Divided by this。

 the probability that n equals M0 and this is just the probability that M equals M 0 times the probability。

That came with M being un zero。Equals the C。So this is just a base。Good， and this， of course。

 is half， right， This is half。😊，By， by definition of my M M is with probability have and 0 probability half M1。

 So now what do I know， I learned this is half， this is half。 So this implies that the encryption。

That the probability。Then encryption with Pk and N0 equals C。It's simply this。

And this is true also for M1。 Nothing here。 I could have written M1 here as well。

 because they both both have They're both the same。So this also equals。Similarly。So， by。Symmetry。

Of M0 N1。These are the same probability of encryption of key and M0 equal C is equal to the probability。

Of key and M1 equals C because they're both equal to the same thing。Questions。呀。Am I assuming。Good。

 good， good。 So I'm okay， great question。 The question was I'm assuming any independence。

 because base theorem tells you that the top part is the probability that m equals M0。😊，And also。

 encryption of key and MC。So I'm not。OnceOnce you put m equals M0， it's the same as。

 So let me write it a great question。 Thank you。 One you can write this part。

Let me put it here on the side。You can write it as the probability that m equals m0 and encryption of km。

Equal C。But this is probability of n equals n0 and encryption of k and M0 equals C。

And now these were independent。Because here it only depends on cake because M M0 is fixed。Great。

 thank you。😊，Great question。Any other questions？Okay， so this just shows。😮。

That if you have Shannon security， then it already implies perfect and distinguishability。

 So Shannons security seems kind of just stronger。But now we're going to see the other way。

 So it's not stronger。 It's actually equivalent。 The next thing we're going to see that if you have perfect and distinguishistuability。

 it implies shanon security。Okay。Any questions before we go to the other side。Ready。与。

If I should leave it， Let me。Go here。O。So the next is going to be this direction。😊。

So suppose the encryption scheme satisfies perfect and distinguishability， and we will argue Shannon。

 so suppose。The encryption scheme。Is perfectly distinguishable。😊，And we will prove that it's shannon。

O that it's satisfaction Shanon security。 So for this。Fix。Any distribution？M。On messages。Right。

 and fix any。嗯。And see。So any message inside for text？

And now we need to argue that that equality holds。Right， the Shannon equality。Great。So。Okay。

 so how will we prove it， let me call this any M0。Okay。

 because we'll have M1 in the proof there because we'll use indistinguishability。 Okay， so fix any。

 Now we need to prove， let's look at the probability。That n equals n0 conditioned。On C。

An encryption of K And N。BeingC。This is over。Key and distribution。

I need to prove that this is just the probability that M is equal to M0。Yeah。What am I going to do。

 I'm going to use base rule。 That's basically basicallys the only thing I'm going to use here。

 So this is equal exactly as before to the probability。That this and this。

 which is the probability of n equals m0。 and now I can times the probability。

That C is that that encryption of K and M0。Is equal to C。Divided。By the probability。

That encryption of key N M0。Is equal to C。So。Yeah， exactly as before。

 it's the probability of this and this divided by the probability of this。

 and the n is just the probability of the M equals m0 and here you put n0 and then they're independent so I can multiply exactly this part is exactly as before。

No。Let's look at this part。Basically， what I'm going to show you。

 I'm going to show you that this part is equal to this part。It's the same。

 And therefore you get encryption the probability that M equals n0 as we want it。Yes。

 so I'm going to show you that this is equal to this。And the reason this is equal to this。😮。

You will come from perfect and distinguishuability。Okay， why， why would prove it intuitivetuly。

 Why does it come from perfect and distinguishability， What is this probability。

It's the probability that， you know， for any M， it's like you look at the probability that the encryption of。

K with n is equal to C， but they're all the same by perfect distinguishability。So it doesn't matter。

 It's all going to be this， basically。But let's prove it formally。Questions before。Okay。

 let me do this formal， so let's look at this。What is this？So this is over M。😮，And the key。诶。

Last arrow was distributed from this set。 Yeah， just I'm sure there are may be some notations here that you're not familiar with that I'm kind of screaminging at you。

 if any of my notations are not， you don't know what they mean， just raise your hand。So far， so good。

 Was there any notation I used that was not。You're not familiar with。Okay。Great， so what is this？

Some。Overall M， let me call it like M1。In M。All1 an M。And this is the probability。That M equals M1。

Times the probability。That encryption of K with M1。It's equal to C。Yeah。

 this is just basic probability。Which if you forgot， look at the handout。And no， by。

Perfect and distinguishability。 This is just a probability。Of the encryption of K and M0 being Z。

RightThat's exactly what profound indistinguishable he says。 So this is equal to sum over M1。

The probability that M equals M1。Times the probability。That encryption of k and M0 is equal to C。

This is by。Perfect in distinguishability。But now this part doesn't depend at all on the sum。

 This sum has nothing to do with it。So， you can kind of。Put this on its own。 And this is just one。

So it's really， so this is one。So this part is one， so you just get this part。This is one。

And you only get this part， the probability， and now this two， this and this cancel。

 and you just have the probability that M equal M'0， which is exactly what Cha security tells you。

Yeah， so basically， both of them just follow from really basic probability and and base base rule。

Yeah。Eion is encryption。Where it。Good， e it's not really being used。 You're saying， where is it used。

Oh。Yeah， it's， it's just a scheme。 So I'll say， when you talk about security。

Nobody security has nothing to do with decryption。 So the decryption is there for correctness。

 Ten your correctness。 The adversary， what he sees is just encrypted messages。

 He doesn't care how you own your own laptop and your own device is gonna you're going decrypt the message。

He just sees kind of encrypted messages going on。 And the question is， what does he learn about them。

 So youre right that you're right that when you talk about like security， in some sense。

 you don't need to write decryption。Yeah， you just need to write the encryption is secure。

 I wrote it this way because kind of I talking about a secure encryption scheme。

 an encryption scheme consists of a tupo。 But， but yeah， you're right。 it's a good point。 Thank you。

 The definition of security actually has nothing to do with the encryption。

 It's only about the encryption because theverary doesn't。 Thats what he sees。 encrypted Cyphertex。😊。

Now， later in class。We'll see that it's not quite the case， but for now that you're write 10%。Great。

😊，Questions。Okay， great， so。By the way， I want to say just one more thing。

 there's another definition。That's also equivalent to these two。 I'm not going to prove a coons。

 but I think it's good for you。 It's a good exercise to think about why it's equivalent。

 It's very similar to perfect in distinguishistability。 So I can write it here。

But it's a little different in the following sense。

 Note that both perfect in distinguishuability and Channon security。It's not really。

 you don't see an adversary there， Right， So when， usually when I， when intuitively。

 we talked about security， we said， oh， an adversary that sees。

A cipher text encrypted message doesn't learn anything。Now， these definitions， where's the adversary。

 Now， it's true。 It's baked in here by saying that the probability of an encryption of 0。

 like the encryption of 0， have encryption of n 0， having the same distribution， encryption of M1。

Means that an adversary cannot tell the difference， but there's no adversary in the definitions。

Another way to say this definition， so this is definition three。Which is equivalent。

 but the reason I want to write it is because later thes in class。

Well be more similar to the third one。 And here's what it is， it says。For every M0 and M1。

And for every adversary。Sometimes we call them Eve for Eaves for Eavesdper。 Okay。

 so this is an Eavesdroper that looks at the Cyphertex， and he gets the probability。 What is EC。

 the aversary， he' is going to see an encryption。With a random keyK and one of the messages。

 either zero or one， so a random bid is chosen。And the random key。And if。Cs a ciphert。

 which encrypts M。So with probability half it encryptem 0， and probability half encryptem1。

And her goal is to guess， what is it that it's encrypted。 Her goal is to guess B。

And the probability that she guesses this is happening。So she has no idea。 Okay。

 so I choose her around a bit。 I give her right encryption of so she for only two messages。Yeah。

 she says， I'm going to distinguish between encryption of encryption number1， like sure， here you go。

 encryption of a random one M B for random B。Can you guess which one？No， like， yeah。

 you can gasp probably half， but you can' do any better。So。You know， maybe this evening。

 when you have a little bit of time， try to think why this and this are indistinguishable。Okay。

 it's pretty easy。It's pretty easy to see that this definition is the same as perfect and distinguishingability and hence also the same as chtropy。

Shannon or Shanon security， and our definitions we'll see later in class are more similar to this style。

Where we actually talk about adversaries。Okay， great， so。

Seems like we have a very strong definition here。 Yeah， like you see if I protect you or nothing。

 nothing。Wow， great。So now there's two questions， A。Is it really that strong like we suspect。

 like we think it is？And B can we even achieve。So Im I'm going to show you that the answer。 yeah。

 yeah， we can achieve it。 Wow， is it as strong as we see， not really， but so we'll see both。

 I wonder you want it you guys need like maybe we'll take like a three minute。Break， okay。

 how many people need like a three minute break to just。Stretch and how many people want to continue。

 Okay， break。Continue。Okay， maybe today will continue。

 but maybe next classes will take a break because we started today with。

 I think a majority here want to continue。And we started with some administrative things。

 So maybe today will continue。 but maybe later on， we will take like a low break。Okay。

 so let's see them。The construction。So the construction is what's called the one time pad。

This is also due to Shannon， but it was actually reinvented。 It was。

 It was used way before Shannon as well。 It's a very nice。😊，Simple and elegant construction。

 It's been used in practice a lot， by the way， in early times because it's really secure it's really perfectly secure and simple and easy to implement。

😊，So let me show you what it is。Okay， so first of all， the message space。

 the Cyphertex space and the key space are all like。Some。Message some fixed bit length bit string。

 So it could be 0，1 to the n for awareness N to be whatever。

 How long I depends how big you the messages you need to him。So when you do a one time pad。

 you should think， okay， I'm going to encrypt。 the message I want encrypt is contains 1000 bits so and you'll choose n to be 1000。

 Okay， depends on what you want to encrypt。Okay， so that's them。 So the point is the message space。

 the separate test space， the key space are all the same。No， here's the。The encryption algorithm。

 you take a KiK， you take a message M。And the Cyphert is just the exxole。You just exhort bit by bit。

 You take the first bit of the message， the first bit of the key， you exor second bit。

 a message second bit of the key， you exor and so on。 You just just exhort bit by bit。Very simple。

How do you decreect？Exactly。U x or k with aciphertex。Why is it secure， Why is it correct。

 so let's first do correctness。So， for every end。And K。When you try to decrypt。With keyK。

 the encryption of K and M。Where you get？Is K x or here？K X or with acipher textext。Yes， okay。

 X with the ciphertex。 What is the ciphert。K， X or M。Which is by sosociivity， it's k， x or K。

X or aim。This is zero。这你在。Okay， so really easy。Yeah。Simple。What about security Oh questions？Okay。

 let's let's see security。 Let's try to prove I like to use indinguishability。

Kind of the easiest for me to think about。So， let's try to prove。

That it satisfies perfect and distinguishability and therefore Shannon security。Okay， so security。

So to prove security， what do we need to prove， We need to prove that for any two messages and0 and M1。

So for any M0 and M1 in the message space or 01 to the n。And for any cipher text。

For any ciphert in the Cyphertex space， which is also 01 to n。We need to prove that the probability。

That I encrypt M0 and Gt C is the same as the probability I encrypt M1 in Gt C。

So what is this probability， Let's see， What is the probability。Over K。That I encrypt。With K。

 I encrypt M 0。And get see， this sea。So， let's see。This is equal to the probability。

What is encryption of k m0 which is k x or I' 0。 So it's the probability that k。

X or n0 is equal to C。The problem is overcame。So this is just writing it。

Right the same thing differently， the probability that K is equal to n0 x or C。

Just another way to write it。This is some fixed and string。

So what is the probability that the key is equal this specific and string。Remember。

 the keys chosen randomly from all the and strings。

So what is the probability that when you choose the key randomly from all the am strings。

 then you get this specific am string。Yeah。Exactly， exactly。 it's1 over two to then。

And the exact same thing holds when you choose M1。So。For any。And 0 and1， whatever。

The probability that you choose a random can and get this specific C。Its always。

 there's only one key and exactly one key that will give you that C。What key is it？😮。

C X or the message。So's a probability that you will get。You know， this effortphertex is exactly。

1 over two them。So you got perfect in distinguishinguishability。Conantastic。So okay， so let's see。

I gave you a really strong definition。I constructed it。 I proved to you。Security。

 here's a one time pad。 We have a construction。 We have a security proof。Don。

I hope you enjoyed the class。Okay， what's the problem with this scheme？The problem with this scheme。

 anybody sees them like a。See some things like yeah。ペトば。Okay， good， good， good。 So， right。

 So let me just repeat for the recording。 So why basically， what we said here is that， well。

We need to communicate the key， but you know， how you communicate the key for that price。

 just communicate the message。 like if you need to communicate the key anyway， just say the message。

Okay， let me put， you're right。 Let me push back a little bit on this， which is。在。Exactly，s not yeah。

 exactly。 it's not helpful to send the key because I mean。If we send a key。

 then now we can securely send the message。But why not just securely send the message to begin with。

 in some sense， what are you gaining。So let me you're right， I agree。

 let me just push back on that little bit and say， well。

 you are gaining something which is why this thing was used。

 which is we can communicate the key before we know what message we want to send so maybe when we go to a battle usually was used in wars。

 you know before we agree a key， now I'm in a battlefield and I can communicate with my home base you know with messages that I learn。

During the battle after we。 So it certainly to useless。 But you're exactly right。 The problem is。I。

You need to decide ahead of time， how many bits do you want to communicate。You want to communicate 1。

000 bits， we need 1000 bit key。That's a problem。And moreover， let me， or in another words。

 another way of saying this is that if you。Try。To encrypt twice。 And let say I give you this scheme。

 And you're like， oh， look， it's so secure。 So maybe， you know， we shared the key。

 I send you my secret message。 M worked really well。 I'm very happy。 Now， have another message。

 I'm primeing。😊，Let me try adding prime too。 I'm going to encrypt them prime with the same key。

Now what happened？So what happens？O。What if we encrypt twice？

So suppose we shared a key that Richard doesn't know the key。

 and then I send you encryption with my key of M0。This was Cyphert  zero， the saw the Cyphertex。

And like oh't worry， he didn't learn anything Good。 He doesn't know if it times 0 and1。

 He doesn't know anything。But then next day， I have another thing。

 I another I had something more to say。So then I may want to encrypt another message。And one。Now。

 what happened， Is it okay， What did the the diversity learn anything。是啊。这都是有来。Ex focusさ。ち。Exactly。

 they address what they。He learned why what he， let's look at what is C 0， X or C 1， which the dary。

 of course， knows because he saw the Cyphertex。What is this？This is encryption。Of M0。

 which is K x or M0。X or。Enncryption of M1， which is K X or M1。AndThis is just M0， x or M1。

So he learned that sort of the message， this is a real problem。Another way to think about it is that。

Suppose the message that it really somehow knew what it is。 I'm going to encrypt。Okay。

 maybe he knew that I'm going to say I'm going to attack tomorrow。He knew that。So if he knew in0。

And he saw the Cypher attacks， now he knows the key。Now he has the key。

 whatever like we're destroyed。So really this scheme。😮，Only works for one time。Now。

 this is really not okay。 Look， you know， what is this。 This is joke。 we， the goal is we once meet。

 we agree on some key。 and then we want to send， I don't know how many messages。

 Maybe we want to have a long conversation。 It or conversation。

 Maybe we have an ongoing relationship for years。 I don't know。 What is this what。

 This is ridiculous。 This is a completely unacceptable。做。In some sense， what's the problem。

 The problem is， but I just told you， So go back to definitions。This is a perfect definition。

Correctness， Shannon security， what else do you want？So what is the problem with the definition。

 The problem was anybody see how， let's go back here。What is。

 what is or or perfect indistinguishability， I guess what is the problem， How would you。

 What's the problem to this definition。How do you change this definition？Exactly。Admore。

 we want to talk not just one message。What really we want to say is the grocery sees many cipherts。

And he still can't distinguish。So for any arbitrarily long number of cyberte that he sees。

He doesn't know if it's like， for any。Sequence of Cyphertex in sequence of Cyphertex。

 he doesn't know which one it is。And any number ofts are as much as when you hold going to send。

 I don't know a priori how many separatets were going to send。That's really what we want。

Now here's the problem。 So okay， great， let's just change the definition， Why not？

But now we need to change the construction。The construction doesn't work。 We just we just。

 we just saw that。 It doesn't。This construction is broken。So now you say， okay， no problem。

 change the construction。So what's the problem， I'll tell what the problem。We can't。It doesn't exist。

 It's a very nice definition。 Yeah， add site fortex。It's not achievable。So here is kind of a theorem。

Maybe I'll write it。For any secure encryption scheme。So for any secure。Encryption scheme。

 encryption dec secure， I mean， in the secure， Shanon secure， whatever。It holds。The link。

Of the key space。 So in the case of a Valntine pad， it's2 to then， the number of possible keys。

Is at least as large as the number of possible messages。

So based the number of thousand messages we're gonna to send。

 So here think of the message like how many messages are we all going to send finally together。

 you know， overall， So maybe today I send you one message and then M1 and then I'm2 and then Im3 and then I 4。

 eventually I'm and 1000 Okay， Let's think of this as one big kind of message in the message base that I sent you over you know。

 days。The key needs to be as large as the number of bits I send， basically。

So this idea of sharing one key of certain size and then sending as many messages and as many encrypted bits as you want。

Forget it。 It won't be secure。That's just impossible。Now， O， so two things I want to say。 First。

 why is it impossible。I'll try to do that in two minutes。And。Then to say， now， really。

 before I I was kind of you were leaving on a happy note cause we were done。 now we were gonna。

 you know， to throw tomatoes at me and run away because like， what's the point， you know， I。

 you know。😊，I promise all these things and immediately you walk into the room the first thing before the first class is over and you get in a while。

 you know， saying whatever you want you can achieve。So let me。Say， on one positive note， really。

 for me， that's a。Beauty of cryptography。 I would， if I had to describe cryptography in like one sentence。

I would say it's an art of overcoming these periods。Okay， so whatever you try to do in cryptography。

 you'll see that over and over again。 Whatever you try to do， the first thing。

 you find out it's impossible。It now comes creativity。Hey， how do you overcome this？

And that's really where the beauty lies。 Okay， how do you overcome these kind of how you jump over these hoops。

 How do you push them aside and manage。ToTo do something。So let me first say why this why。

Why the keyspace has to be so big。 Okay， there is no way to have a small key and then encrypt many。

 many messages。 why， Because fix for any ciphert C that encrypts any message， whatever。

 fix any cipher textex。Now， by perfect security。The point is。

 this hyperphertext doesn't tell you anything that was encrypted。RightSo by perfect security。

By the security， it means that for every message。In the message space， there exists a key。

In the key space。encryptncryed， to C equals encryption。Of key and M。Because otherwise。

 if one of the messages。Can I be encrypted now you learned。Now you learn， okay， this message。

 forget about it， there's no way that would break security。😡，So for every proable message。

 there's a key。But now。It can't be that the same key。Enncrypts two different messages。

 because then you'll violate correctness。Because when you decrypt the key， you get one message。

So it can't be that you can。Two different keys that the same key encrypts two different。

The same key with two different messages generate the same Cyphertex。But because when you decrypt。

 you get one， and that's the correctness。 The correctness says you always correct。So， by correctness。

诶。For every message， there exists a different。Different。K。

And that means that the number of keys is at least as the number of messages。

 So because for every message， you have a different key。

 it implies that the number of keys is at least as big as the number of messages。

So the problem with Shannon， the problem with that one time pad has。

 it's not actually about one time pad。 It's about any scheme。

They will satisfy the security definition。Okay， we're out of time。But don't worry， on Monday。

 we're going to overcome this impsibility and we'll show you how you actually can get to cur。谢谢。

