# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p14 6.5620 Lecture on 10⧸20⧸2025 (Mon).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p14-

O。So。Hi。ok。啊。Where are we？Last time we defined this notion of trap door injected oneway functions and showed that we can use that to construct a CPA secure public key encryption。

 actually we first started with showing the Elgamal。

 a public key CPA secure encryption under DDH or a variant of it under CDH so that's one number theoreticaloretic assumption。

And groups of prime order。And then we showed kind of this general trap door if we had a general like a trapor objectiveject。

 one we function family， then we could also build a public key encryption that are secure but we didn't yet show how to construct these trapor function families and that's what we're going to do today Okay so that's the plan for today and for Wednesday we're going to move into lattice based cryptography。

😊，Okay， so so lets let's just kind of recap the definition of a trapor one way function family。

 so trapor injective， I guess one way function family。

 we had a PPT Prosive phenomenaial time key generation algorithm that took us input the security parameter in unary and output a public hash key。

😊，And a private trapor key。And we had a family of functions for every hash key。

 every hash key defined a function， okay with some domain that may depend on the hash key and a range that may depend on the hash key。

 and it has the following property。 First of all， it's efficient to compute in the forward direction so there exists a polynomial size v algorithm that if you give them a hash key in an x。

😊，It computes the function， correspond to Dski on inputx。Okay， that's efficient in compatibility。

Secondly， you can efficiently sample from the domain。😊，Okay so in general。

 it's good to think of the domain as being zero into the lambda though it's not always zero into the lambda as we'll see today。

 but in general the domain may depend on the haski and what we were required is that there exists PPT a principle known time sampling algorithm D that when you give them hashki。

 it sps out x's as if they came that are statistically close or exactly。😊。

It doesn't really matter as if they came from the actual sample uniformly from the domain。 Okay。

 so maybe another way to write this。 Maybe this is not uniform from the domain。

Did you have a question？And okay， so that you can officially sample from the domain and then using the trap door。

 you can invert the one we function。 So there is this a polynoial time inversion algorithm。😊。

That if you give them a trap door and。Function corresponding to the。 So this is for every hash key。

 trap door key。From Jenin。If you take the trap door and the function evaluate at an NX。

 the inversion algorithm will give you back X， always。Okay， there's no randomness here。And finally。

 without the trap door， this is hard。So if you know the trapor and you're given an element in image。

 you can invert if you only know the hash key。It's hard。Namely。

 so the one way is good says that for any efficient phenomenaial size， algorithm A。

 there exists an eligible function so that if you give a the hash key， so this is for over random。

 if you give them a random hash key，😊，From Jen。And the random X。

And you take a random X in the domain and apply the function to x。

The adversary or the algorithm will be able to find x。Only with natural probability。

That's the requirement for trapdoor functions。Any questions about this？

So this is what we're going to build today。 We're going to show how to construct this thing。

And this is just a quick recap。😊，Let me hide it here。

Is that this indeed gives you a CPA secure encryption because here's how so the way were going to- so let me construct a public encryption from this。

😊，So our key generation algorithm。We'll just output it will be the same keyn， basically。 Okay。

 so it's the exact。Key Jane output will output a public key and a secret key。

 which is exactly hash key and trapbu key。Okay， so it's the exact same gen for the hash function。

 And now how do we encrypt。So given a hash key， I'm going to show you how to encrypt bits。

 so this is message space。Just bit by bit。And the idea is。

 the way we encrypt it is we choose a random X in in the domain， so you choose a random X。

I guess uniformly in the domain。By know by this algorithm。And then where you output。😮。

Oh and also choose a random R， this is for a hardcore predicate。And what you output。😮，Is。F of X。

 F hasshke。A be。Now x is for those who only know the hash key， it's hard to find x， it's one way。

So now we're going to take a Harcore predicate of the I'm going to give you R。

And I'm going to take a hardcore predicate of X and R because Harcore prediicates。

 the only way we know how to construct them in general is randomized Harcore predicate like the Goldash Levin。

 and then we're going to exor it with a message。😊，That's basically the idea。Okay， because。

X is unknown。This looks uniform， so it's a good one time pad for the message。

Because this is indistinguishable from uniform by the goldda Levino。

 by the fact that it's a Harcore predicate。Okay， so。So， this。Is in distinguishable from uniform？

OrComps in from uniform。 And therefore， to go one time pad。 However。

 for someone who knows the secret key， which is the trap door。They can invertex。Given XNR。

 they can find the Hcorre predicate and then they can unmask。So all this was a recap。Okay。

 and what we're going to do today is construct this thing so we can have a public encryption。

Questions before we start。I really like questions。Yes， thank you。

When you were talking about like this shot。I thought we said before that we can sort of bly sample like a truly random function for any polyadversary。

 so why do we need to do approximate a truly random？Is it like a size？St issue。Sorry。

 not to understood the you're saying。S shot to 56， we think of it as a random， but it's not random。

 sample What do you mean， sample， sample what likezily sample elements in the like build a random。

 like truly effectively， a truly random thing。That's polyci， any the average area of the polyide。

Okay， so。That's then kind of in analysis in the actual construction。We use whatever。 shot 256。

 whatever。 Now we will say， is it secure。 So the way we analyze the security。

 we say I'm going to prove to you that it's secure if instead of shot 256。

 you would use a truly random function。The way we prove that is via this laserly sampling of the truly random function。

 But that's all kind of just in the analysis to argue that if you were to use a truly random function。

 the scheme is secure。 and then you can say， but okay， buts we don't use a truly random rulessha。

 So is it secure and then sort of。You know， in practicing like it implies， but we don't empirically。

 it's a good proxy for security。Yeah， okay。Okay， so okay， so now we're going to any more questions。😊。

Okay， so we're ready to construct Preor oneway functions。Okay。

 so our constructions are going to rely on more number theory， more than what we've seen so far。

 And in particular， we're going to use a group。😊，So far， we talked about like prim motoral groups。

 So we took like Zp star and took like a。For example， this is a prime order subgroup。

Or we can take elliptic curves of prime order， which we didn't talk about so much。

 but there are other groups that are were very useful in cryptography。

 and that's the group of some number theory。😊，First。Because this number theory is going to be。

The basis of our construction。So first of all， the groups we're going to be interested in is the group。

The end star， which is all the elements， x。Such that。X is co prime。10。But n is not a prime。

 rather it's a product of two primes，😡，Is equal to p times  Q。Where P and Q are prime。

A kind of lambda bit prime。Okay， so they're basically of size roughly 2 to the lambda。Okay。

 what distinguishes this group from from ZP star， What does it matter。

 Why am I like making a point the n is not a prime， It's a product of a prime。

 What's the big difference， ZP star is defined exactly the same way。 It's just if n is P。

 that ZP star， what's the big difference。And there's a very， very big difference between the two。

 And the difference is the order of the group， the number of elements in the group。

 So when you talk about Z P star。The number of what's the number of elements in the group in Z P star1 P a prime。

P -1。So you know P， you know P -1。What is the number of elements in this group？Exactly。

 it's everything except the elements that are not that are multiple of P。 There are Q of them。

And all the elements that are not co prime to Q， there's P of them。😡，Plus one because we。

We counted n twice。Okay。Which is。By the way， p minus-1 times 2 minus-1。

But the point is we don't for someone who only knows N。They don't know what this number is。Given N。

 it's hard to compute this number。Let me tell you， computing this number turns out to be equivalent to factoring。

And we'll see this。Okay， so the point is this group is a group of unknown order。

Order meaning the size of the group。And this is what's going to help us build kind of this tractor function。

 It will be based on groups of unknown order。And groups of unknown order kind comes up in cryptography a lot。

😊，Okay， so we have groups of known order ZP star， we have cryptography like DD， CDA。

 these kind of assumptions， which we can base cryptography upon。😊。

And then we have groups of unknown order。😊，Then we can base cryptography and the fact that the order of the group is unknown。

And that's that's what we're going to use in order to build the chapter functions， yeah。

Big N is known， indeed。 Big N is known。But the order of the group， this number is unknown。

And we'll see that if you know big N and you know this number， you can know also P And Q。

 So it's like factory。Okay， so okay， so now the one thing we'll need we're going to rely on is the Chinese remainders theorem。

 Okay， so CRt。😊，The Chinese remainder theorem， which basically says that this group。😮，Z and star。

Is isomorphic？To the group， Z P star。Times Z Q star。In other words。

 what it says is if you take any element。Or okay， so what do I mean bymorph isomorphic if you take and if you take C。

Which is a times B。Modern。Wait， let me make sure I'm a。Okay， so C is equal to a times B modern n。

 if and only if。C is equal to A B， minus P。And。C。Is equal to AB？2。Mud P and mod Q。O， so。

Or in other words， moreover， moreover， so it's easy to go from an element C。😡，In Z N star。To a pair。

C， mod P。And C， mod Q。And what the CRT theorem， that Chinese remainder theorem tells us is that this an isomorphism。

😊， namely， you can go from here to here， you can go from here back to here， okay， so moreover。

 there exists。😡，For every。A and B。In ZP star。Time zq star。There exists。

 and it's easy to compute even。 There exists and efficiently computable。In the N star， such that。See。

Md P is a。And see。Md Q is B。Okay， so you can easily go from。C in Z N star。To a pair。

 which is just C mod P and C mod Q a pair in ZP star and Z Q star。

 you can easily go back if I give you a pair here， I can find a C here。😡，A unique C， a unique C。

 The reason it's unique is because this is of size p -1 time  Q -1 and this is of size p 1  Q -1。

 So if everything has an inverse， it's unique。😊，And it's also homomorphism， in the sense that。

If you take C， which is a times B mod n， it's if and only if it's a times v mod P and A times v mod Q。

😡，So really， these two are kind of the same。 It's just a different representation。 So this。Is。

Like in a different representation of this group， that's basically what the Chinese remainder theorem tells us。

Okay， and intuitively， the reason maybe I'll， okay， I'll just write quickly the， the way you go。

 it's in the notes。 I don't want to spend too much champion。 the way you go from C。2。Sorry。

 the way you go from A And B。To。To see is。Let make sure I'm correct with a notation。Good。Yeah。

 so the way you go from， let's say I give you A and B。This is mod P。 This is mod Q。

 And you want to go to C where you do， you compute a。Times。Q。Times。Element， I'll call Q inverse。

 but what I mean is this is Q inverse mod P。So。Q is co prime to P。😮。

So it has an inverse if you think of it MA P。😡，And now take this plus b times p times I'll call it p minus1。

 but this is the inverse mod Q。😡，And do everything modern。 Okay。

 all of these operation are done modern。I mean， this thing is a mad cu thing。 but after I have this。

 these multiplication， this edition， everything is modern。And this is going to be messy。Sorry。

 this is begin。And now， why is this C indeed？A mod P and B mod Q。 Let's see。 How do we do mod P。

 Well， mod P this goes away because it speed is 0。And my P。This is the averse might P。

 So this is just one， and you get A。And if we do might  Q similar might  Q。Q is 0。

 So this part goes away in mod Q， this is the inverse of P mod Q。 So this is one mod Q， And we get B。

So I constructed it to be this way。Okay， so now typically， people will say that like。

AB will be like the CRT representation。O。Okay， so when we'll talk about Z P ZN star。

 you can think about the elements as elements really in in ZN star。

 or you can think of them as via the CRT representation。😊，Okay， these two are kind of the same。

 basically。O。Questions about CRt。By the way， just curious for how many people is not the details。

 but like this is this Chinese remainder theorem new to you anybody。Few， okay。

So it's in the notes of review。Because this was way too fast。If it's new to， I kind of。Did it fast。

 assuming most of you know。Readeave it up in the notes。Okay。Question， so this is all the review。 Now。

 I'm ready to do， to do the constructions。Questions， okay。So。

The first construction will not actually get me what I want。

 It's not going to be full like trapped or injective one way function。

It's going to be an injective one， a tractor one way function， but not injective。Okay。

 so let me first I'm going to do a warm up。😮，And the warm up is。Called Ran's function。

Introduced by Michael Rabin。In I think， 82 or something。Oh，79。

Or at least one version was posted in 79。 And what he constructed， he constructed this trapor family。

 but its not injected。And so if it's not injective， then you can say， okay， so how can you invert？

You can't work is that objective。In his function。😮，It turns out every output has four prims。😮。

And his inversion function， output all four prims。Okay， so your outputs all four。

I'll show you this function because it's going to be the basics for everything else in this lecture。

 but I just wanted to tell you before I show you。Some of you may be kind of underwhelmed and go to sleep because you can say。

 wait， what what good is that for me， Because if it's non injective。

If every element has four pre images， how do I get my public encryption。

Because this is my public encryption， it basically says I choose a random Max。😡，I compute function。

And then I'm going to kind of take a howcore predicate of the pre image。And use it as a mask。

But if there's four pre images。😮，Then， you know。You won't be able to decrypt it will hide。

 hiding it will hide， but you won't be able to decrypt it because。😡，You have four x's。

 each x will give you a different Her predicate。So actually， it's going to be too secure。

It give be so secure， the message is lost。And you cancel' you get nothing， you can' decor it。

So you can say， wait， that's no good for me。And you're right， it is no good for us。But。

That will be kind of our stepping stone from there we're going to see how to build the both both the public we'll see two public encryptions。

 one， Goddos and Mialid or DarSA， both of them by the way down here at MIT and the ran function will be both of them will be based kind of under the ran function。

Okay， even though it's funny， just。For historical purposes， RFA actually came before Ran。😊，But。

 I think。To teach it in class， I wish it came before because it's much nicer kind of to teach it that this way。

 So I'm gonna kind of pretend it came before。 But actually， I say came later。 And actually。

 the story， then if I hope I have a little bit of time to study the story because it's very interesting how kind of it came about。

 But okay， but let's start with Raven's function。😊，So， Raven's function is like。

You couldn't expect something more elegant， beautiful and simple than Ran's function。 The Ran。

 he was a professor in Hebrew University and in Harvard for many years。

 everything he's done is like the most elegant。 He's like inter simple and elegant。

 Hes a Turing Award winner。 But he His work is just phenomenal。 So this is one of them。

 one of the many。 But here is his function。 So first of all， what is Jen。😊。

The key generation just outputs choose two prime PM And Q and outputs， and which is the product。Okay。

 so Jen。Basically， you choose。So， sample。PN Q。In 01 to the lambda。What I mean by 01 to the lambda。

 I mean， the binary representation is lambda bit。 So it's a number of sides roughly two to the lambda and compute。

Which is p times  Q。And that's it output。Hash key， which is N。And trap door。Which is PN Q。

That's kind of like the groupsian star how do you now let's look at the function F sub n and is the has。

So， this function。Goes from theen star to theen star。Okay， so indeed， the domain。I。

Depending on the hashke， okay？And here is the computation， FN and input x。😊。

Just outputs x squared modern。That's it。Couldn't be simpler。You square。So I once co taught with Noah。

 which I， I， I really recommend you read his notes。 Besides them being really， really good。

 He's really funny。 And I remember he was standing here and he was saying。😊，you see this function。

 don't you like， wish It was like， I wish I invented it。 Don't you wish like you invented it。

Because it really is super simple， okay， so now let's see why it satisfies everything separate than inject。

😊，So let's see， what do we need？Efficient computability。 Yeah， given N and X。

 you can compute x squared。Okay， so now let's see the properties。So。Pper。Ts1， official compability。

 yes，2。Can you sample from the domain？So two， yeah， we can sample for the domain。 so we can sample。

From。Uniformly from ZN star。How do we sample， Well， I can do sample here is one way to do it。😮。

I'm going to sample uniformly。😮，In。Like between1 up to n -1。And。Either it's called prime 10。

 in which case。 So now if。GCD。Of R&N is one。Then good output R。

This will happen with overwhelming probability。If it's not one， well， either you do it again， again。

 again， again。Okay， it's expected polynomial time， but not perfect polynomial time because， you know。

 you may be extremely extremely unlucky and always fall P And Q and things that divide P or Q。😊。

Or another thing you can do。Otherwise。You can， okay， if it's not， the GCD is not one。

 then it's either you then you learn P and Q。 So otherwise you learn。P and Q。And if you learn PNQ。

 you can just sample。Like by avoiding P And Q。Sample from。Basically， Z star。So now， you know。

 exactly the set。 you know， PM And Q and you can sample from the set。 But either way， you know。

 you can do expected polynomial time， you can a。诶。O。So either way， okay， so sampling is easy。

 The point is， this is easy。3。What else trap door。Oh， let me do it。 Okay， yeah， let me try here。诶。

Actually， let me。Do a new board。Okay， three。😮，Its finding a trap door， so the inversion algorithm。

Okay， so for the inversion algorithm， I'm going to use the CRT。😊，Okay， so how do I。

 How am I going invert。So， giving。Y， which is supposedly x squared modern。And given。PNQ。

What am I going to do？I want to find a square root。The way I'm going to find the square root。

 I'm going to find the square root map P。 I'm going to find the square mark Q。

 and then I'm going to go back。Now， you can say， wait， why， why is finding square root mod P。

 Why am I doing that， Why is finding square root mod P easier than find a square root mod N Why do I need to go first P and Q and then go back。

And the answer is， yes， it is easier to find square root Mark P And Q。

 Find square root smart P And Q is easy。 Find square root Mad is hard。😊，Why is that。

 Because Z P star is a group of known order and the N star is not that precisely the difference。

 So let me， let me explain。 So here's what I'm going to do。 So first。

And me just make sure I'm consistent with the rotation。😊，O。

So I'm going first compute square root mod P， So compute。A。Such that。A squared equals y mod p。

How do I do that？ And this is where the fact that I know the order of the group matters。😮。

What I need to do， I need to take， basically， why。And raise it to the half。

What does it mean raise it to the half。 So the way I do this， so compute as follows。Compute。Inverse。

Mud。P -1。And the point is， we can efficiently compute inverses。This is by the extended GCD algorithm。

Okay， so the extended GCD algorithm。😮，Tells us that we can compute inverses。So I compute the inverse。

哎，呀。Yeah， you do payments on number2。 You're right。 Yeah， so right， so sorry。 Yeah。

 as I was saying that， good。 Thank you。 You do， you do it by。诶，no。喂。You want to raise why？

We are keep plus white。Why。No， wait， what did you say？P plus1 of four。You aren't always why。披次。Okay。

 so if we do that。Then this will be this was going to be the A。Or this is gonna be the two inverse。

 No， that's a。Okay， so it's y to the p plus 1 over 4。If you raise it squared。

P is one over two and P minus1 over two。Why this。Wait， no， wait。

 But then a squared is y to the P plus 1 over 2。 And you're saying that this is one and y。

Minus1 over two。So you're saying this is y， basically， because y is a square。Yes okay。嗯。Yeah， yeah。

 yeah。 Why is a square。 So Y is kind of x squared。 And therefore。

 when you raise it to the a P plus one over 2， this will。Cancel。And then。So x to the P -1 is。Right。

 so x the p plus one is x。Yeah， okay， and so this is just x to the p-1 plus 2。 and this is1。

 and you get x squared。 Okay， that's one way to do it。 Yeah， but and in general。

 you can compute n versus the point。 So the important point， Okay， you're write， youre write。

 and that's one way to to do it。 But the important thing for any group， Z N。V N star N N。

 you can compute inverses。Okay， and。So， and here a。And we know the groups so we can do that。

 but yeah。Does this only work？Yeah yeah yeah。You're right。 So when when you're right。

When we do this way， you write。 So let me choose P。 Q such that P， you write is 3- 4。

And Q is 3 months 4。That's actually important for finding it a good。One second。嗯。Hold on。HWai， no。

 no， no， sorry。呃。I don't think I need it to be3 mod 4 to find an inverse，两。Exactly。

 you can do it either way here， you can do it either way，3 months4， not3 months4。

 We will need three months for later， but for this， we don't need three much4。Okay。

 so the point is we can compute the inverse of two Either way。 This is one way to do it by taking a。

A啊。To be this。So thank you。 Okay， great。And you can do it。

 you can do it other ways to find the inverse。 Okay， so I compute the inverse smart P， I compute。B。

 similarly， says that a says that B squared equals y mod  Q。And now A and B， and now I find compute。

To be isomorphic， to be such that。诶，所以 ok， so。X is compute x that x mod P。Is a。And x mod  Q。Its B。

So basically I compute the inverse in P。 I the inverse is square root， I compute the inverse mod P。

 I compute the inverse mod Q， and then I use the CRT to compute the inverse modern。O。

 is the square root， Mad， That's it。Yes。Good， good， great， great， great。 good。 So the point is。

 I computed one pre image。I can actually compute all four pre images exactly。

 So the point is because。A squared actually has y has two pre images。My P， it has。Plus minus a。

 both of them are pre images。😡，And it has two pre images， mod Q plus minus B。😡。

Both of them are pre imagesage。Okay， and it has exactly two because ZP。😡，And Zq are fields。

 they prime order， so their field， every degree2 equation has two solutions and there are going to be plus mine。

 And when I say plus minus by the way， what I mean here is a and P minus E。😊，And here， I mean， B。

And Q minus B。Okay， I note that Q minus is B squared mod Q is exactly B squared。

And p minus a squared is exactly a squared because the P term cancel。So these are the two pre images。

 And so you can compute all four x's。 So mod n。We have four。Squa roots。Because we have two mark B。

 We have two mark Q， and then each and every combination will give you square root modern。Okay。😊。

Questions。Okay， so we can compute all four。Pre images or square roots。 if you have P and Q。

What if you don't have PM andQ？ so now I want to argue that it's one way。

So here actually you can compute。Maybe。X 1， x 2， x 3， and x4。Plus， minus plus minus。

 So for all four options， you can compute。Okay， what about a。What about one winnerus？😮。

Now I'm going to argue that if you have an efficient algorithm that inverts given only n。😡。

I can use this algorithm to factor。So inverting is equivalent to factoring。Of course。

 if I know how to factor I can invert， I just show you how to do that using the trap door。

But now I'm going to show you if you can invert。😮，You can also factor。

 So these two things are really equivalent。Okay， so here's I'm going to show you， suppose。

There exists a polynomial。Adversary and。Not negligible。Excellent。Search that。That the probability。

The algorithm is going to be given n。And x squared modern。And it outputs some pre image。

 some x prime。You know that such that。X。Prime squared is equal to x squared。Modern。

With probability at least epsilon。Suchs that for every lambda。And the probil is over random PN Q。And。

 and being。P times Q and x random in Z Q star in the N star， sorry。Okay， so suppose I have。

An algorithm that he gets the Haki， which is N。He gets the hash value。

 which is x squared modern for random x。just define some inverse， one of the four。

Now I'm going to show you how I can construct an algorithm for fracing。

 So I'm going to show you that there exists。Apoly signs。B。Such that。That probability。That B。

Given n output like the two factors， P and Q。It's going to be。 It's going to be like epsilon。Over2。

So still non negligible。Okay， that's gonna break factoring。Becauseuse the factoring assumption， Oh。

 I didn't actually say that exclusively。 The factoring assumption says that given a random n。

 which is a product of two primes。These are primes。

The the factoring assumption says that the probability that any poly size algorithm outputs the two factors is negligible。

But I'm going to say I'm going to show you that if you can invert this function， you can factor。O。

 if you can invert， find an inverse with nonex probability。

 you can also factor with nonex probability a little smaller。

 but basically the same up to factor of two smaller。Okay， great。 How am I going to factor。

So here' is the idea。 The idea is the following。This B needs to use a， right， remember。

 what can you do， That's what he has。 So what B will do。啊啊。Okay， let me。Exactly right。Exactly right。

 So let me exactly write。 So here's what B is going to do。B， given N。He needs to run call A。

 How is he going to call a， He's going to sample。A random X。

 Let me just make sure I want to make sure I'm consistent with the notation a。Oh。

 I actually changed the rotation。 Okay so。I'm going to sample a random R。

And I'm going to give the I'm going to run a run。A， an input n and r squared mode n。And now A。

 I get something X。If x is it now。X。Squared my end。Is not R squared mod then if it's not a pre image。

Then output put Ba， I didn't succeed。Okay， what can I do， But with probability epsilon。

I actually get a page。Otherwise。I now have x and R that are both squared to the same value。😡。

Now what I'm going to do， I'm going to compute。The GCD。Of X and R。The point is。This number。

 let me call this why。Why has four pre images？Sorry， it has four pre images。

And if you look at the CRT representation。😊，The prims are like plus minus a and plus minus B。

These are the square roots of y of any。😡，Okay， so。Okay。可说。You can be the GC of x plus minus。ExSo。

Sorry， sorry， sorry， sorry， sorry， X minus R and N。Yes。Indeed。You write， Why。

 Why does that give us what we want， And that's going to be。

 that's going to be with probability half condition and the。 if this was but。I'm， I'm done。

If this was not bo。I want to say with probability half， I get European pure Q， yeah。

I need to check this and this your thing。😊，Both of them， that what you're saying。Yeah。

 I think you're right。 So let's see。 let's see the analysis。 I think you're right， so。Okay。

 why did I factor here。😡，This was bad id factor， but with probability exxon， it's not bad。

So condition are not bad。😮，I want to cleanin that I factored with probability half。Okay。

 so if I manage to get a pre image。😮，Then I want to say with half， I can factor。 And why is that。

 Because why。Has four pre images。Okay， where the CRT representation of the pre images is either AB。

Or a minus B or。Minus A B or。Minus a minus B。那我。If。I get。Okay， now he gave me one and I have one。😡。

Okay， so one of them I chose。😡，And one of them he chose。

Now he chose he has no idea what I chose information theoretically。He just sees why。

overMy R is a random one of these。Al if you can think of it as he chose one， I don't know。

 I'm just going， let's say this one。And I chose a random one also。Now， if I chose the same one。😡。

It's like， I got the same thing。 I get， I don't know how to factor。 Then I lose。But if I chose one。

 that's equal to a。Equal in this， but not in this or vice versa。So the claim is the following。

So he chose one and I chose one。I chose another one， this one。It's what I choose。Is equal。

Only in one of the PNQ。So if I chose either a comma B or minus a comma minus B。

 if they're equal only in1。😡，Then I want to claim I win。Otherwise， I lose。Okay， that's my claim Yeah。

 so again。This。A。Chose one of them。Independent of my R because my R he has no idea what my R is information theoretically。

So we can think of him first choosing。And X。And then I choose a random R。My claim is if my are。

Agegrees with his X only exactly。 and one of the coordinates， then I can factor。Why， why is that？

So if let's say I agree on A， but not on B。 So okay， I guess if I agree on minus B。

 but I don't agree on a， then when I add these two up。I'm going to have。 It's going to be 0 mod P。

And non zero mod cube。So I got something P time something。And when I take the GCD， I get big。Sovoila。

 I factored once I have click in compute Q。And similarly， if I chose a， if instead of this， I chose。

This！Then again， when I add， yeah， so actually I can add them， right， why did I subtract？

What they both were， whatever。 Okay， but what I yeah， I did add types of trafficfls too。

 It doesn't matter。 So now add when I add them。I'll get 2 a commara0。

So I'm going to have a number that's a multiple of Q。😡，And when I G C， I'll get Q backac。

And then again， I can factor。So either way， I can factor。So， it's pretty interesting。

That inverting this is equivalent。It's not easier。 It's not harder than factory。

 It's exactly factoring。So we got this trap door one way function from factoring。

 This is really great， but we can't use it to build an encryption。 is the problem。😊。

So now the question is， how do we kind of。Kind of push it a little bit to build an encryption。

 So we'， oh， yeah。We didn't。 Sorry， that's was in parenthesis。 We'll use it later。😡，No。

 we didn't use it。 It was It can be used to make the inver to find an inverse。

 but you don't have can use you can find an inverse for any PN Q。 It's not necessary。Okay， so。

 but we will use it when we try to change this， when we will try to to use this ran function to build a public encryption。

 one of our constructions will use this。 in another construction。

 we'll do something else about these。But we'll start using it。 Okay， any questions。Okay。

 let's take a couple minute break and then we'll show how to use this tweaket to get public encryption。

Okay。Okay， so let's continue。 So just one point is that the reason。This function was not injective。😮。

Is because we said every element has four square roots， every。Element has four pre images。

 And actually， the problem。It's not on tune， and therefore every element has four pre images。

 however。If we were if we define the domain and range differently， it would be injected。

So let me tell you， here's how it supposedly defined it to be other squares。😮。

So we denote my quadraed residues。😮，This is the set of all x squared so that x is in theN star。

So it's all the elements in the n stars， but squared them。Now， if we defined it this way。There。

My claim is it is not only a trap door one way， seat in a trap door for mutation。Same domain。

 same range， like great。Okay。And basically the， okay， let me just say it is a。

 We can make it a trapped different mutation。So why not just do it this way， even better。

The problem is， if we do it this way， we lose the the fact that we can efficiently sample from the domain。

Because given an N。We don't know if a number is a square or not。We know Mon Pete。We know not cute。

 but we don't know about that。😡，Okay， so again， yeah。Samples全 and recipe。

King Britain Jefferson sprayed them。Oh。诶。Sorry， you can。 you can。 Yeah， you can take random numbers。

And square them。诶。Yes， you can。 You write a。You're right。Un。

If you take random elements and square them， you won' get the beautiful distribution。Why not？

Maybe I'll play in zero。Yeah， but that's fine， right。That's fine。Yeah。

 you should get uniform a one second。Good。What。😮，All square of yeah。Indeed， indeed， okay。

 so theyre good。 Okay， great。 So this is exactly brings us to the Goddafe Mialli encryption scheme。😊。

But I want to say。Which is exactly based on this。😮，But。嗯。诶。Okay， you can sample a residue。 true。

 You you can't decide if something is a residue where you can sample a residue。However。

When you argue that this is one way。It's not clear how to argue one wayness。 And the reason is。

 at least not clear that it fails for factoring。And the reason is。When we said it's one way。We， okay。

 so let's see。 actually， let me think about this before I talk。 Okay， so how do we argue one way。

 We're going to， I guess。<|OTHER|>う。Did Ieration it or it still。 Okay， fine。

 So the way we argue one way is we said， suppose you have someone that inverts。 Oh， yeah。

 I can still choose。Okay， so let me say two things。 First of all， this is a permutation。

 If you take from cordretic residue to corretic residues。It's a permutation。P and Q are 3。 four。😡。

And let me tell you why you need here3 P and Q to be3 mod 4， because as we said。

 every element here x squared。Has four primages。So every， if you take y， which is x squared mode。

It has four pre images， and the four pre images are like plus minus A plus minus B。

So all the four possibilities。Now。Maybe many of them are quara residues。

So which now I want to say there's only one that's a quadratocra Duin。

How do I know that only one is a to resident at？Maybe all of them are quit because it was modern end。

So maybe a is a quarterre residue and minus a is quarterre residue。😊，え。If it's 3 mod 4。

 So now what I want to be the case， I want to choose P And Q so that -1。Is not a quadratic residue。

 mod P。 So it's not a square mod P。And-1 by -1， I mean p minus-1 or Q minus-1 is nano a quadrated president mod Q。

That's a， I want to choose them in this way。And once I choose them in this way， so now if P and Q。😮。

A three mod 4。Then they cannot be a residue。Okay， why because minus1？😮，Is take any generator X？😮。

Thick X to be a generator。Let's say Mark P。Then。P -1 over 2。 This is -1 because when you square it。

 you get one。And that's exactly the definition of -1 when you skirt， you get one。And it's not one。

 And this is not one。So this is -1。 and now I want this is not to be a generator。Okay， so I sorry。

 I want this not to be a residue。Okay， so don' I want this not to be equal to some z squared。😡。

And the reason it won't be equal to z squared， it will be equal to z squared if p minus1 is like4 or four times something。

😡，Okay， so I basically， I， if x is a generator， I want to say this is not x to the two times something。

Times D。And the reason it's not2 times d is because p is not congruent to it's not1 mod 4。😡。

If P is3 mod four。😮，So P， if p is3， mod。😡，4 then what you have here is like。I guess then this。

Becomes or okay， then this becomes 4 k plus 2， and then all this becomes like 2 k plus1。

 which is odd。So it's not a residue。That's kind of the important the point， if。

P is equal to 3 mod mod 4 and Q if p is equal to3 mod 4， minus-1 is nano residue。

 because this would be odd。😡，Okay， so thats kind of that's why we choose it this way。

 to say that these are not residues。And now。There's only。So now only one of them。

It's going to be a quadra crisis who in my queue。😡，Because each one。What。There is plus minus a。

1 is residue，1 is a non residue。 There is plus minus B，1 is residue and ones are not a residue。😡。

And the only one which is going to be a quadratic residue。

 mod N is the one that's both a quadratic residue， might be。And the quote red requires Dumatque。

So theres a thing。 So now this is really a permutation。Okay。Great， so， great。 So， so now we're good。

And now， let me tell you how- so now we want to build a。P encryption scheme out of this。

 So you can go and build it via。The generic way of building it， which we saw here。😮，Or alternatively。

 you can build it via Godwa So Miikali。😮，W of building it， which came before。 Okay。

 so that's one terms the history is a little annoying because it it didn't come the correct way。

 But the way Golddothan and Mc Kly chose to do it is very similar， so。Gen is exactly the same way。😡。

As above。As Ran。But with P and Q being。Congruent to 3 mod four。Now。The encrypt。

They encrypt bit by bit。 So the message space。Is0 one？😮，And now， the wearing I encrypt。A bit。

Is I choose a random quadratic Crou。Modern， so I sample。X。In theen star。And then。I output。

Either x squared。😮，My then。Or if B is1。Then now put minus x squared mod。So I output -1 to the B。

Times x squared。So either I output a quadra credit。😊，Or I output minus aator residue。

And the important thing is。😊，That。Minus is a non residue。Okay， so now how do I decrypt？😮，Given pin Q。

And given a cipher tax C。Any idea how I decrypt？Yeah。Exactly， so I check。Exactly。If。C is a project。

 President Mar。If so。I output for zero。Otherwise。I I'll put one。

And how do I check if it's a greater credit my then。

 I check if it a credit credit my P and I check markQ， if both hold， then this hold。That's it。

probably only need a check why。AndIndeed， indeed， if if， if this was honest yet， you're right。If。

 yeah， if you， yeah。The only reason you want to check both is if you're worried about a malicious site for tax you don't want to。

 But yeah， for。Just for honest， I protect enough to check one。 You're right。

One thing I want to point out， though， this。Is not equivalent a factory。 So now， okay。

 it's clear why you can decrypt。 It's because you know， ones are non residues， zeros are residues。

 you can distinguish between the two， so you can decrypt。

But you may hope that this is equivalent to factoring， too。😮。

But turns out this is not equivalent to factoring the scheme。why isn't that so this scheme。

 its secure under what's called the quadratic reidocsity assumption。And this is some。

 I'll say you what the assumption is it's not factoring。And moreover， let me tell you something。😊。

So basically you can think of that it's equivalent to saying。

This assumption you may think is equivalent or this is secure。

 assuming it hard to distinguish between qualatera residues and non residues。So now let me tell you。

 turns out it's easy to distinguish between residues and non residues。 So actually。

 if I give you a random element， which is a quadrata residue or just a random element in the N star。

😊，Turns out we can distinguish between the two。 There is an algorithm distinguishing between the two。

So now you can be like， wait so， this is broken。But， no， this is not broken。Yeah。Okay， so mod end。

 so let me tell you end， so let me tell you what's known。😡，So distinguishes the between uniform。😮，In。

Z N star or uniform in quadratic residue N where n is P times  Q。 thats easy。I can't do with Pro 1。

 sounds like I can always， but I can do better than half。 I can have a non negligible。Advantage。

 beyond half。No， it's hard to see。 I'm not gonna to prove it now。

 It has to do with Jacob symbols or render symbols， not going do it here。 It's not that difficult。

 but I'm， I'm gonna， I'm gonna skip。 I'm just saying it's possible You shouldn't be able to see it unless you're like an experienced number theorist that learned this。

However， so this， this you can distinguish。 this is distinguishable。So now you can say， oh。

 then this is broken。😡，Exactly。Exactly， so I'll tell you whats， what we think is hard to distinguish。

 So what we believe is it's hard to distinguish between uniform in Z and star。And sorry， sorry。

 sorry。Uniform in this。And let's replace this instead of this。

I want to say choosing a uniform element。😮，That is。A non square mod P and a non square mod Q。😮。

So here I'm going to choose uniform。In。Nan， sorry。 Nan could write a cr。 Nan could write a cr。

So if I， it's hard distinguish between both residues and both nonres。

But turns out you can this thing if one is a residue， one is a non residue， you can test that。

You can test。😮，If you get one， you can test if。You're in a bucket that both are residues or both are non residues or in a bucket that only one is a residue。

 That's easy to test。😡，But it's hard to test if you're both residues or both non residues。

 and that's the quadretic reservrosity assumption。 And that under this assumption。

 Go Mi Kali is is secure。Okay， questions。Okay， so that's go withthan Mialli。

 let me say a few words about RSA。So let's go back to Rabin。😡。

And remember that we wanted Rabin with that's injective。

So one way to make it injective is go to codetoity。Another way to make it injective。Is。

Nothing they take squared。The reason I wasn't injective is because there's two square roots M P and M Q。

Let's take something that has only one root。What has only one root？😮，Let's put three here。

If we put three。Then the claim is there's only one route， M P and M Q， and I was injected。😮。

So why bother was two， go with three。That's basically the idea of RSA。え。But we need E sorry， yeah。no。

 okay， good， good， good。 So basically what I want three。To be to be co prime。To P -1 and  Q -1。

And one way to make it co prime to P -1， Q -1， So let me erase this because I'm now an RA。

I can take P to B。Two month3。In Q to B 23。If I take this way，3 is co prime to P and Q。And now P -1。

  Q -1， sorry。So now it's called prime， I have a unique inverse。Good， so now inject。 I'm done。

That's basically R， they just work with E with instead of two。They take three， that's co prime。第。

I just a you。Yeah， okay， so good。 So in practice。They often use a number， which is like。

Two to the 16， I don't remember the number。The reason is that it's like 1，0，0，0，0，0，0。 I mean。

 they need a prime。 They use a prime that has， if you look at the binary presentation。

 it has almost always0。 The reason is。Okay， so， O， why use 3。

 The reason to use 3 is it's very efficient。 What's nice about Ran Saring。 Saring is only one。

1 multiplication。3 is also great。 There's only two multiplications。😊，If you can do an arbitrary E。

 that's co prime， but then you have many expfinity， like you'll need repeated so it's less efficient。

This。Has very few exponents because it's only 1，0，0。 like the repeated screen is much more efficient。

 So often they use this one in practice as well。Yeah， I the standardized version， I think， is。

 is something like this。Indeed。And。Okay， great。 So yeah， I just put three。 But yeah。

 but the standardized version， there's efficiency reasons why。They use others。Okay。

 but that's basically it。 that's， that's kind of the idea。 And then everything works。

 except for what about is it secure before we said， if you can invert， you can factor。

So it's secure assuming factoring is hard。How about now if you can invert， can you factor？

We don't know。So is it secure？😮，Well， if you're so secure，'s secure。 and that's our assumption。

There is the assumption， says。Given x to the third， it's hard to find x or given x to the E。

 it's hard to find that E being done。Actually， the RA assumption the。You know， for any E， you know。

 you can you can say that given exit， it's hard to find roots， basically， any root。Okay。

 but given given a root， third route， E root over there， the assumption is it's hard to find it。

That's our assumption。Now， I want to tell you one more thing before we break because just to be a little more true to the history。

IRSA was the first one。Okay， before Gold So Miikali， before Ran， before everyone。

And what they said they said they were write after or shortly after Dfiman his paper where they proposed idea。

 they did a key exchange and they said， oh， this key exchange and we think you can get get all the way to public encryption。

 they proposed the idea， but they didn't have a construction。And then RA came with the construction。

 but they did it wrong。 The way they did the construction is they said the public key。

So they encrypted， they did encrypt it by bit like they should have。In this way。

What they did is they said to encrypt。With public key N， a message N。

You just output n to the E mod n。And you have inverse， you have an inverse because it's co primeing。

 So there's a D。 So to decrypt。Either so there's a D you have。

 let's say you think of the you can think of this of the trapor instead of being P and Q。

 you can think of of the trapdo as being D such that D times E。 So D is kind of the inverse。 Okay。

 you can you compute the D is the inverse of E， but mod in the exponent。 So mod like。The length。

 the size of the group。可是。Every element of the size of the group is one。

 So that's kind of the inverse that you will want。And C， you just compute C to the D Mar N。

That was that what they proposed in the correctness follows from the fact that if you take n to the E times and then decrypt D。

Then you will get m to the one plus some constant time with the order。Of the group。

 but every element the order group is one， so you'll get M。Okay， that's how they proposed it。 Now。

 of course， it's not secure。Because it's deterministic for one。😡，So it's not going to be secure。

So the way it is implemented in practice is more along this line。

And it turns out interestingly that for the RSA function， for the RSA one way function。😊。

We have to have a really nice Harco predicate。We don't even need a randomized hardcore predicate for R。

 the Harcore predicate。Can just be。The least significant beat。About least significant。啊。

Turns out this is a Harco predicate for the specific RSA function was proven。😊，So you can kind of。

 you know， you don't need randomness here。 So basically you can take like a random X to the E and then take the first bit of x and X or it with the message。

Turns out for RA， that's equivalent。 That's secure， assuming the RSS assumption。Okay。

 we're out of time。 I'll see you on Wednesday。