# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p28 6.5620 Lecture on 12⧸10⧸2025 (Wed).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p28-

Oh hi， everyone。So。This is the last class of the semester。 so I wanted to start by thanking you。

 I really， really enjoyed teaching you。 you were a great， really。

 really a great bunch to teach really each and every one of you。

 And so thank you because there's nothing more frustrating than actually kind of。😊，You know。

 wanting to teach and then people don't want to learn。 It's another a good match。

 So I felt up really the opposite here。 I felt like you guys all are curious and want to learn。

 and it really made my made it really， really fun。 So while I am happy that the semester is ending and we can all have a good vacation and to rest。

 I am a little sad that， you know this will end。 But I really hope I'm sure you guys will do really。

 really great in whatever the next thing you do。😊，And a。嘟嘟嘟。My notes are somewhere。Okay。

Plan for today。 What I wanted to do today is I want to kind of start by doing a quick kind of overview of what we studied this semester。

 What I hope you got out of this semester。And then I want to talk to you a little bit about kind of the new kind of kid in the block。

 which is these large language models， the advance in machine learning， how they affect cryptography。

 how I think we cryptographers should help。 I actually think we are in a very important position to help out with safety and alignment and LLMs because if there's one thing I hope you took out of this class is that it's very important to learn how to think adver kind of adversarly and this is exactly what's needed in today's reality。

 So I think there's a lot of work to do in this intersection and for those who are interested in it's actually there's a lot of work for all kind of people。

 people who like。Kind of more mathematical and theoretical work people like more applied work it's like there's across the board I think it's important for us researchers to kind of step in and make our world safe so that's kind of what I want to do talk a little bit just kind of I'm not going to teach you much but just kind of propose the open questions that I think are important some of them at least。

😊，And finally， what I want to do is the last， I know how many three minutes we will have left。

 kind of open it up and kind of ask me anything kind of thing。 Okay， so whatever。

I don't know about research about MI T， about classes， about。Paths， whatever， happy， technical。

 non technical， whatever you guys want。So that's the plan for today's class。Okay。

 any questions to begin？Okay， so this where， so now kind of the overview of where what we did the semester。

Okay， so we started by just kind of， you know， private key。啊 crypto。That was the goal。

 We started like you would， you would think， make sense with information， theoretical security。

 that's kind of。And we saw that we were kind of stuck in the one time pad。And that's it。 You don't。

 You can't even have secure encryption。With just like information to security。

 That was kind of our first。Big stop， right， Like there's nothing we can do。

And then came kind of the first， I think， brilliant idea of， of cryptography。

 which is kind of exchanging hardness for randomness。 Okay， so then we came kind of computational。😊。

Security。Whereas ideas is use hardness。Like the hardness of like when we function。

 the hardest to invert or whatever。To generate。Quote unquote， randomness。And of course。

 what I mean by this is pseudoand。Once you can generate and by hardness。

 we showed even if you have just one way function。Then you can kind of generate。

 do a get a PRG from it， generate more and more randomness this we saw using the Golddes Levin Harcore predicate。

 which is again one of my beautiful one of my kind of favorite gems in theory and cryptography。

And then we showed if you have a PRG， you can get a PR。A pseudo randomum function。

 Once you have a pseudo random function， you can generate as many paths as you want and get kind of secure。

And like many time。Inncion。And not only can you get encryption， as we saw， you can also get Mac。

So you get basically you can do encrypted nap。 You can authenticate and secure communication。Okay。

 so all of these were good。 We can。 So that was kind of the first。I guess part of the class。

 the course， where you can just secure。Communication。Fantastic。But all this required。

Now we share a key。 so that was kind of the first modular class。The second was then to say。

 what if you don't want to， what about public cryography。 So this was number one。

The second module in the class。Was。What if we want public e cryptography。So， here。

We were so focused on sec hearing communication， but we were in a setting where it's not clear how the how we can get together in Cherokee。

Okay， maybe we're in different part of the world。 It's not easy to come in share key。

 So we don't want to assume that each pair of communicating parties meet and share a secret key。

 then what do we do。Okay。And the first thing we saw that in the case of authentication over signature schemes。

Which is。It's the publicly analog of a max scheme。You can actually do from one way functions。

Actually， in class we showed not only we function， but a collision resistant hash。Function， but。

 but it's known how to do it from one way functions。Okay， so that was kind of the。

The first thing we showed and that was via you know。

 we started with one time security and then went to many time security。

 So that was for for the signature scheme。And then we asked， what about our public encryption scheme？

Can we do that。And here was the first time we actually used like specific mathematical tools。

 like number theory， group theory， lattices。 all this came for public encryption up until now。

 we just needed one way functions， which we can construct kind of in。😊。

There's kind of more of like engineering way to do it。 Okay， not under like Apple mathath。But here。

 the only way we know how to do it。Is based on， for example， we started with DDH。

By relying on Dyham and key exchange。And then we also showed more generally， assuming trap door。

Injective one way functions。By using again gona Levin， But trap injective one way functions。

 while it seems pretty not， not specific。 It's not a specific number theory assumption。

 The only we know we know how to instantiate this is under specific number theoretical assumptions。

 We don't have。You know， like， for example， if you want。A one way function， I can just。You know。

 I can basically take like a circuit， garble it with a bunch of and or noth，h， blah， bh。

 And my guess is I won't be able to。 I'll make it injective and you won't be able to invert it。 Okay。

 you can do it like heurically。We don't have good heuristics here here， we really。

 the only way we know how to do it is like。Use math。Okay， and I'm saying it not。

 I'm saying it not is a bad thing。 I mean， I'm saying it kind of is a bad thing。

 not because I dislike math。 I love math， but it's because once you need to rely on specific mathematical toolkits。

 that's when things become kind of inefficient often in practice。

 And that's why I'm saying it with kind of a bit of negativity。😊，And on the positive side， of course。

 that's great because then we put security under some you know。

 interesting mathematical assumption that then like people can try to to attack and that's where kind of science kind of progresses。

 so that's actually you know my personal research or my liking is all based on actual mathematical assumptions。

 but there is a price for that in practice。😊，So in practice。

 people like to use more engineering type assumptions。Okay。

 and then we also went to Lauce Bay or LWE。And once we went to lattice space。

 we saw not only can we compute encryption， we can actually compute fully homomorphic in。Un'dably。

Okay， and then， and then okay， so then goods on public key crypto。 again。

 we can secure communication completely。 We have signatures。

 We have encryption and normal we even have formal homomorphic encryption。😊。

So we can do not only secure the communication， we can also secure computation in terms of hiding Okay。

 so I can give you my encrypted things I want you to compute encrypted and you won't learn anything。

Okay， so we get confidentiality， even in computation。Okay， so that's， that's good。

 Then the third thing we we went， though， the next thing we did how about securing computation in terms of integrity。

😊，And then we went to kind of proof systems。And here we learned we started by talking about zero knowledge proofs。

Where we showed kind of pretty miraculously， this is also one of the might been the most beautiful gems in cryptography is what we showed here is that actually you can take any proof。

 any mathematical proof and convert it into a zero knowledge one， one that reveals no information。😊。

Pretty amazing at the price of having some interaction and at the price of， you know。

 knowing that the verifier may accept false proofs， but with natural probability。 Okay。

 so there is some tiny， tiny probability of error， but that probably can be like one over 2 to the 500。

 which is less than the number of molecules in the universe。 So it's good enough。😊，Okay。

 so that was zero nodeox proof。we talked a little bit about music。Non interactive。

 zero knowledge proofs。And。可看さ。Nsic。Msic N I Z K。Yeah。

 so this is an non interactivetract zero knowledge。 And basically， the idea was， to say， okay。

 the the zero knowledge proofs we had， we showed the verifier just send random。😊，Bits。

 they were what we call publicly verifiable。And then the idea was， oh， in that case。

 maybe we can replace the verifier with a hash function instead of having the verifier choose the random bit。

 have the hash fire， the hash function。 decide with the。😊。

Apply a hash function to the provers first message。

 And that will kind of the output will be the quote， unquote， random bits chosen by the verifier。

 So just replace the verifier with a hash function。Okay， now there's no interaction。

So that's kind of the music。 And we proved or that it it's。

 it still sound assuming the hash function is like modeled as a random orle。

 If the hash function is completely random， really， like all you can do is access it。 then basically。

 it's almost like you're talking with a verifier。 whether you're talking with the verifyre talking with the hash function。

 It should be morally the same。 It's not exactly the same because。😊，With a hash function。

 you can kind of try and try again， whereas with a ver or you try once it's like。

 I don't want to talk to you anymore。 you， you know。

 you liar or you're fake where a hash function you can kind of abuse but。Besides that。

 that's kind of the two things are equivalent。 And that's kind of one way to get physicss。

 Theres other ways where you don't need to rely on random ors， but we didn't cover that in class。

And then after， so these were just talking about constructing proofs that reveal no information。

 So it's about proofs， but again， about confidentiality。 Okay。

 we did not want to leak why the theorem is true。Then we moved on to talk about16。

And in succeed proofs， we now we actually don't care so much about a confidentiality。 Sctch that。

 We just want。Basically compressed。Okay， so our goal here is to take a very long proof and just make it short。

And， you know， those who you're pretty young in your career， but some of you may have already。

 others will probably at some point， those of you who had to verify correctness had to read papers and verify correctness of someone else's proofs。

 then you probably can are familiar with how painful that can be。

 So won't it be nice if you can take kind of this very。

 very long proofs and just kind of compress it to 128 bits。 Wow， that'll be fabulous。

 especially for the reviewers。And turns out we can do it using cryptography。Okay。

 and here basically the， the first thing we showed here。

 how the main ingredient we talked about is the sumcha protocol。

Which seems to be like an interactive proof for a very， very specific。Type of computation。

 And the computation was also only for like proving that the sum of a low degree polynomial。

Let's end， the hyper hypercu。And 01 is some value V。Over some finite field。 Okay。

 and this is low degree。 So since we like for very specific kind of computations。

And we showed an interactive proof for this， which was very efficient。 Like the Vers runtime was。

 was proportional to K。 The number， actually， I denoted it by M。 So let me。M and the degree。

 of the function， basically。And， and so very efficient。 And moreover， even here。

 the verifier's messages were completely random。 They were just random field elements。So again。

 you can apply what's called the Themere paradigm and replace the verifier with a hash function。

And make it non interactivetract so you can actually， I can prove this to you。In your single message。

Where I take the interactive sum check and instead of talking to a verifier， I just apply。

 I take that， the， a the field element。That the verifier would have sent， I replace it with a hash。

 I take it by applying a hash to the transcript so far。

 And the result I interpret as a field element。 I prover interpret as a field element。Okay。

 so then we got basically non interactive， just some certificate that certifies the correctness of this very。

 very large sum。And then we showed after that， we showed， oh， this is actually。Very general。

Because by using the sum check and the sumch colon。Without any additional ingredients。

We can get succinct。For bounded。Dt computations。So any computation that you can kind of module model as a kind of。

Circuit of depth D。Basically， I can prove to you。 And think of this circuit， it's very， very wide。

 So it's a huge circuit。You can think of it as like the number of gates here can be like K where K is really large。

 but the depth can be polylokey。 Okay， so much， much smaller。

I can prove to you the output of the circuit。By basically doing。Like K or sorry， D or 2D sub checks。

 that's it。Nothing else。Okay。And， and so and okay， so that's great。 And then again。

 you can kind of reduce and you can apply for toir。 And therefore， if you apply for toir。

 I can just give you a certificate。😊，That， know， if you have like a short input x， a short output。

 why？I can give you a certificate that this gigantic circuit and input X will output Y。

 where the size of the certificate grows linearly with a depth where you can think of it as very small and poly long with the size of the circuit。

😊，Okay， so it's going to be very， very efficient。And then finally。

 we went on to kind of using this together。 So this was what called the GCR protocol。

 and then we took this protocol together with crypto with commitment schemes。Or with I me call it。

 Yeah， okay with。A kind of polynomial commitment schemes。To get， kind of take。

To give us succinct proof or argument for any circuit。 For about that， even deep circuits。

 And the idea was flat in the circuit。😊，So the idea was， if you take， you have a very。

 very any circuit， it can be very， very deep。You just fl it。😮。

By putting here as the input will be all the wires。Not only the input wire here will be the input。

But here you can put the next like the wires of layer 1， layer 2， layer 3， layer， all of them。

 put you all the wires。 And now all you check。Is kind of consistency that all， you know。

 all the gates are satisfied。 And that's very， very shallow because you just kind of do everything in parallel and just do a big an。

That everything is satisfied。So the idea was， okay， you commit to this？😮，And then， you run the。

Same protocol， the subject， the G care protocol。 And then you need to verify a point in the load degree extension。

 And that's basically whatnominial claim allow you to do。And then， okay， so we get。 So now great。

 this is great because now we have this is。 so we have this gives you。😊，16 proofs。

For all computations。Not just low depth。 And then finally。

 we noted that we can get successfulin proof， even for N for non deterteristic computations。

By committeeing。You can put your witnesses， too。So if I want to prove to you。

Let's say so now let's have a proofers for Maz last theorem。Kind to prove it to me。 Sure。

 I can give you my 100 page sorry，1000 page paper。You're not going to read it。 So instead。

 here's what I'm going to do。I'm going take my proof。 I'm going put it here。 Here。

 I'm going to put the proof。I'm going do kind of a polynomial commitment to this proof。Then。

Now takes like， I'm going write it in a way that you can kind of verify it mathematically。 Okay。

 so think of like， I know， propositional proofs or whatever。

Kind of formal a way of verifying this proof。Take this circuit that verifies the proof so you know think of the you know informal proof verification。

 you have like an axiom and then this applies this and so on so forth。

 so all these gates check all these modponents or whatever it is and eventually I'm going to see the proof accept。

😊，And what we're going to do， we're just going do kind of G care over this entire thing in it then。

You open point and load extension。 So the point is what this can allow you。

 And then if you apply Fi mirror all of this， basically what it allows you to do。

It's to take an arbitrary proof can be as long as you want and just shrink it。Using cryptography。

That's。So， that was kind of。The module and and proof systems。诶。Good。

 and then after we went on to proof system。Go here， the fourth module。

Was an secure multiparty computationm。Computation NP PC。And here， basically， the goal was to。

We're in a setting where we have a lot of parties and parties。

 we each have a secret inputs of our own。We don't want to share our input。

 either because we care about our privacy or because there's a law against sharing it if it's like private data of patients or whatever。

And yet we want to compute some joint。Function of all our inputs。

And so we showed the protocol BGW protocol to do it。The way we did it is we first。😮。

Constructed what we call the secret sharing scheme。

Where each of us take our private input and we share it among all parties。 And again。

 this was using kind of low degree polynomial， same technique that we're using the sum check or GKR so I take my my secret I using a low degree polynomial I share basically generate a random low degree polynomial that on zero is my secret。

 and I give party I my polynomial point I so part1 of 10。😊，And we all secret chair things。

 And then we kind of what the BGW protocol。For multipart computation， the Benno goldva V on protocol。

 What they did sorry， Benno Goldva on protocol。 What they show is basically how to compute。On。

And shared data。 Okay， so how can we compute under shares。

And what we showed is computing doing addition and multiplying by Scalar is very easy to do。

 you can do it locally， multiplying on the other hand is much more problematic because if you just multiply the share and multiplies the degree。

 so then we need to do some kind of re randomdomization and degree reduction and that's kind of is another kind of sub protocolto so to do each multiplication but then then you can do all that and then you share the output basically you send the shares above the output and you reconstruct the output。

So good。 So that was the multiparty computation part。 And that was basically the last one。

 The final module was like the special topic。 So we talked about quantum。😊，That wast on Monday。

Where I hope I kind of convince you that there's a lot of really important and in my opinion。

 very interesting questions there。 today we live in the world that people are very much believe that quantum computers will be built largescale quantum computers。

 there's tons of investment into that by huge companies and investinging billions and a lot of VCs I there was an event here at MIT not too long ago where I gave a talk in front of hundreds of Vcs。

 I didn't even know theres so many Vcs that focus on quantum。

 That's the only thing they invested in quantum。 So apparently there's a lot of money going into it。

 And so I think there's。😊，Pretty strong belief that we will have large scale quantum computers。

 So being able to。You know。Upgrade all our。Quantum world to the post quantum setting and to use quantum is' very。

 very important because today， really quantum is what enables。Our life today， You know。

 you wouldn't have Amazon if You didn't have crypto。 You wouldn't have like a lot of online banking。

 All the e-commerce is possible because of cryptography。And so， you know。

 upgrading us to the quantum setting is a very， very important piece。

 and then not just upgrading for quantum adversaries。

 but also upgrading and using quantum to our advantage is is an important question。😊。

So that kind of was a teaser for you to hopefully learn more about it in the future。And that kind of。

Ends my summary。 and I want to talk a little bit today about the next thing。

 which is machine learning and cryptography and how that affects cryptography or how what's our job to ensure the safety of it。

But before I go there， are there any questions about anything we studied in class。对呀。

The idea of like switching to。As like。Like a read。I there。If you got to all。

Is there really and I know you hatch the whole beginning of the sequence of the。

Is there really no way at all harmful？翻生。Like。え case？To trick aifier within a frequency。 Okay， okay。

 so good。 So you're saying， okay， let me repeat your question。 So you're saying， look。

 when you convert an interactive zero knowledge proof to a Iic using a hash function。

Is it clear that a cheating proveography is very， very powerful， Can't he cheat。And the answer is。

 if he's exponentially powerful， he can actually cheat。 Why。

 Because he every time if if you could guess what the vers question will be。

 if you can guess in the interactive setting， if you can guess you knew ahead of time。

 The ver is like that's it ahead of time the ver is going to choose a random random string and he tells you ahead of time。

 that's going to be my random string， then you can cheat。

 So the security relies on the fact that the soundness of the zero output proof relies on the fact that the prover doesn't know ahead of the time the vers challenge。

But if he knew out of time， he would cheat。 So now in all powerful prover what he can do。

 he can guess the hash function value。 That randomly。

 the hash function values to be R and he's gonna， he's going to make sure he can cheat assuming its R and then apply the hash。

 He made me lucky。With one over two to the lengths of the challenge。He's right。 His guess is right。

So if he repeats this。😊，Exponciially many times。Eventually succeed。So。

 so when you convert your zero knowledge into a Iic by using a hash function。

 you are no it's a great question。 It's no longer proof。 it becomes an argument。

 only if you're phenomenaly bounded， you cannot cheat。In the random oracle model。

 it's actually provable that if you're polymly bounded， you cannot actually cheat。

 We can actually prove it， because basically。It's like talking to the verifier。

 probablyly many times。He' like like the verton， you know what。

 There's no difference between hash function there or a ver there。 In the verton。 You know what。

 I won't talk to people normally many times。After that， I'm， I'm like I reject you。

 and you no longer you're canceled，That's kind of equivalent to the random orle model。Now， of course。

 if now， if instead of random， you have an implementation。Of the hash function。

 like Cha 56 or whatever implementation you use。 Now， we really don't know how to prove sound this。

But empirically， in practice， the randomal model seems to correlate quite well with you know， we we。

Have not yet have an， We have not yet had an attack。

An implementation where the attack not holes in the random work model。So it's pretty close。

 seems like it I dont I still don't understand why it's the case actually。

 but it seems to correlate quite well。Any other questions， yeah。What do you mean by polym。Oh。

 you mean yes， indeed。 yes， indeed， indeed。Okay， so。And okay， I'm not sure。 Okay。

 so I'm not sure which。 Okay， when you say instance generation， what do you mean。

I don't remember the setting at then there。 So there are many settings you can。

 you can think about this。 And I don't remember something。An instance， an instance in the language。

Yeah， indeed， if good， if the instance， if you generate an instance and it takes more than polynomial time。

 it's basically like giving the prover more than polynomial time。😊，And then， things can break。Indeed。

Okay， so once， once you use cryptography， you need to make sure everyone。

 like the adversary is bounded by polynoial time。 And if you kind of give him access to things that take more than polynoial time。

 then you need to worry， exactly right。Any other questions？Okay， so one thing I wantna go。

 I just want to mention before I go ahead and talk about my two cents about machine learning is that there's a lot of things in classical cryptography that we did not cover in this class that are super。

 super interesting and important。 And they what we call advanced topics。

 So I just want to mention a word about what it is we did not cover。

 And maybe you'll get a chance to learn about it in different classes。In you know， topics。

 classes in in cryptography。 And so what we didn't cover。

 And it came up a little bit in MPC in the last part。Is so when we cared about confidentiality。

 so encryption， folimorphic encryption， we， we basically it ensuring full confidentiality is pretty easy。

 Okay， like you don't learn anything。So here's an encryption， nothing。 Everything is hidden for you。

 Yeah， just do one time pad or do， you know， everything is hidden。That's easier。😮，Then。

 hiding a little bit。So for example， in an NPC， we said。You hide everything except， not the output。

 you want to learn the output。😡，So now it's like。You want to get utility is the point。 So in。

 in the in so for NPC， what we're saying is we're not saying。That the parties don't learn anything。

 We're saying they learn the output， which is some， something about the other party' input。

 The output is a function of the people's input。 So they do learn something。They learned that。

 but nothing else。It's kind of partial learning。Is much harder to get。 Now。

 the B G W protocol was not that bad。 And the reason it wasn't that bad is because it used interaction。

 Intract is a big tool。That we use。 But let me give you an example where it's much harder for us to get security。

 And we know how to do it， but it's extremely complicated and extremely inefficient。 I mean。

 theoretically， it's phenomenaial time。 But in practice， proof really far from anything practical。

And that's。A functional encryption。 So what is functional encryption。 Here's an example。 You know。

 suppose you want， you don't want Google to learn about all your。Private emails。Okay。

 so you tell Google， to here are my emails， but they're encrypted to you。 So， you know。

 when people send you emails， you want it to be encrypted， Google stores it for you。

 but its stored in an encryption encrypted manner。 And then when you take it， when you download。

 when you download to your computer， you decrypted。Won't that be nice。Now， why aren't we using that。

 Then your， your emails， by the way， are not encrypted。 Google thats to read all our emails。

So why aren't we encrypting， We have such great encryptions。 Why are things encrypted。Any idea。

It's actuallyly not that slow。 I'll tell you what the issue is。That may be too。

 but actually you don't want Google tonc cryory Mas actually， and I'll tell you why。

Google is offering services to you。 for example， they're filtering spam for you。Now。

 if everything you got was encrypted， how would Google know if this email is spam or not spam。

So now you can tell Google， you know what？😮，I know there's this algorithm spam detector。😮。

So there are some functions F sub spam that given an message an email， output'll put  zero1。

 spam or not spam。I want you to learn that， but nothing else。So here's an encrypted email。😮。

I want you to learn whether it's Pam or not， but that's it。Won't it be great if we can have it。

 So that's what's called functional encryption。 It's encrypted。

 but there's one function that it's not。 you can actually compute。And the the verifier or the， So I。

 the holder。 So I'm encrypting everything。 Here's a public key。 Here。 Here's my public key。

 but I'm also going to give you secret key of F。Secret keys of F allows you to learn F of the encrypted message。

 but nothing else。So secret key sub Shaspeare。How is。A theres no， there's no communication。

 there's nothing。So I don't want to communicate with Google on each。 right， Good question。

 We can use。 So you're saying， oh， that's not a problem。 use MPC。 Google has the encrypted message。

 You have the secret key。 Do MPC at the end learn whether you learn you guys will learn if it's pem or not and nothing else。

Do you want to do an NPC with Google for every spam message you get， no。

Or any message you get for that matter。No， you want't them to take care of it on their own。

Once there's no interaction， things become much more complicated， yeah。Okay， great。

 homomorphic encryption。 Okay， so what you're seeing is the following。Sure， Google， that's。

 that's right。 Here's another great suggestion。 Use fully homomorphic encryption， so。Google。

 he gets the email。 He has some spam algorithm。 He can， he gets the email encrypted。

 He can run the spam algorithm under the hood of the encryption。

Out he gets an encrypted bit saying spam or not spam。😮，But it's encryptive。 What does he do。

 So he can come to me and tell， O， they this。 And I said， spam， okay， thank you。

 I won't send it to you then。But。I don't want to see this spam。

 I't want to talk to you all this spam I don't even want to be involved in it。Okay。

 so that turns out to be much， much more difficult。

Here is another example along the same line and actually uses very similar techniques。

Say I have like a program。Okay， and this program， I don't know。 It's a secret program。 For example。

 what it can do。 here's something actually in practice that happens a lot。 Let's say。

Google wants to up upgrade something。 Okay， so he send you a program that upgrades。

So here's a program you're supposed to run it on your computer， Microsoft or Google。

 wherever you run it， and you get an upgrade。Okay。But they may not want you to know what this upgrade circuit is doing because if you know。

 now you learn the vulnerability。 I mean， why are they upgrading。

 There's often some vulnerability that they're trying to hide。 If you learn the circuit。

 you may learn the vulnerability and then。They don't want you to learn it。

But they don't want you to have the circuit so you can upgrade。So what do they want to do。

 They want to give you a circuit， a program that you can run。

But you can kind of look into and kind of find what's it， what it's actually doing。That's exactly。

So what you want is an obfuscation scheme。 What is an obfuscation scheme， You take a program。

And outcome something that's completely unintelligible。😡。

But it still has the same input output behavior。So a program that still， if you feed them in input X。

 you'll get the exact same up with Ys before。But if you look at the program。You understand nothing。

Now， for people who barely know how to program like myself。For me。

 everything is obfuscated by definition。 I look at a program。 I look obfuscated to me。

 But apparently， people who are kind of all these wizards who can， you know。

I makega geeks like you guys， probably pretty good machine human obfuscaters。 D the obfuscaters。

 So actually coming up with a good obfuscation scheme is a really， really hard problem。

 I have actually story。 remember after when I was a PhD student here。😊。

Part of my thesis was an obfuscation。 And I remember when I interviewed for jobs。

 I went to the place I interviewed was Microsoft and IBM。

 And when I interviewed because part of my job talk was an part of it was an obfuscation。

I got in both places， I got to meet。 They put they set up meetings for me with obfuscation group。

 Apparently， there was an obfuscation group in both IBM and Google that did obfuscation， okay。Now。

 at that point in time， I worked on a lot。 The only thing I can come up with is negative results。

 like， you can do this。 You cant do that。 You can do that。Very， very simple。

 positive results for like very pathetic classes of functions， like point function。

 like function that output put one and one input 0 everywhere else， things like that。

 But far from anything interesting really， like something。 So I'm like， how can they do。

 They have an entire group do， What do they do， You know， I was， okay， So I start with。😊。

With Microsoft， that was my first interview。 And I'm like。

 I'm really waiting to talk to them to hear。 what do they do， because we didn't even have heuristics。

 like nothing， You know， So I come to them like， so how you know， what does he do。

 and then they're like， well， the first thing we do is like we erase all the comments。😊，Okay？

And then the next thing we do， we change all the variables to like the names of the variables。

 We replace them with meaningful names to like random names。I like， okay。

They're like everything they did， like the most。Basic thing。 Then we inject things that do nothing。

 like basically inject things that like don't have any like。I'm like， oh wow。 so does it work。😮。

Like usually take them 24 hours to hack。Okay。And then I went to IBM。

 I remember and they told me like， usually it takes them。

 I don't remember they said maybe a week or a month to hack。 So I remember I told them， oh。

 you do much better than Microsoft。 It takes them 24 hours。' like， yeah， but to be fair。

 people don't try to hack us us as much， so。😊，So anyway， so this is a very， very hard problem。

 In theory， by now， there was kind of a lot of work on this。 and there have been in the past。

 I don't know， three， four years already now， this breakthrough work that did。

U what's called indistinguishability obfuscation， even defining it is theres many definitions and so on。

 But actually constructed this scheme with some meaningful guaranteed gus， Under standard assumption。

 This was done partly by a student in。UCLA， I want to say。

 and he won the ACM Award for PhD for PhD thesis。hich is kind of the biggest award we have for PhD thesis in computer science。

So， so that's another example of things that this kind of secrecy， but not， but with utility。

Is theres kind of a lot of interesting things going on in cryptography that we did not talk about。So。

 okay。Any questions before we move to machine learning。Okay， machine learning。 Wow， okay， so a。

Machine learning， I feel like really needs our help。 And in what way。

 why do I think this is a class about cryptography， This is not a class of machine learning。

 So why am I talking about machine learning in the last class of cryptography。

 And the reason I'm talking about this is because I think that actually。

 there are a lot of questions in machine learning that needs our expertise， Okay， and。

 and what I mean， the reason I think。😊，We can help。

Is there's a big important things in machine learning about safety。Also called or。

Along the same spirit， alignment。Or we call it security。What I mean by these world words is。You know。

 putting security aside。 Let's talk about these two。We all use by now， machine algorithms like LLMs。

 whether it's Cha GP T， Gemini， whatever whatever you like to use， we use them basically daily。

And we rely on the results。You may be， sometimes。More skeptic about the truth of the result。

 probably your。Parents may be less skeptictic。 Okay， so people， or everybody uses it。

 People use it for medical advice。 People use it for kind of things。

How how we know that they're giving us the correct answer？😮，Okay， so that's kind of。

So how do we know， and I'm not even tell that there can be many reasons why they're not giving us the correct answer。

 They can be malicious。 They can just。Not know， but not tell us that they don't know。

 They can just think they're giving the correct test， but not。

 There are many reasons why we may get false answers。From machine learning models。The question is。

 how do we ensure。Then we get correct answers。and the word alignment basically means even if they're not aligned with our goals。

😡，You know。How do we make sure， how do we catch them？Caring safety just means。

How do we ensure they' are not doing something dangerous。Okay。

So why I think that this is a crypto problem？ So， first of all， well。

 we have an entire module on proof systems。So yeah， we proved that things are correct all the time。

So why can't we prove that。Machine learning models are giving us correct answers。

And the answer for this is that， how do you even define a correct answer。

So if you ask the machine learning modeltto， here's a program。

 Run this program and input X give me the output。 You can actually ask him。 Also give me a proof。

And that's fine。But when you ask the machine learning algorithm。Just a random question。You know。

 do you think my girlfriend is likely to break up with me。 What's the correct answer， I don't know。

 You know， A lot of the things we interact with with these models， there is no correct answer。

 actually。So how do we even define correctness。In this case。Okay， so that's one question。 By the way。

 one thing that came out of， like， I'm just telling you things that we here at M T have been thinking about recently。

One actually interesting theoreticalore model came out of it。

 A lot of machine learning algorithms today， they access external data sets。 They may access the web。

 They may access some other data sets。 And the question is。

 how do we going back to our traditional proof systems of circuits。😊。

What if the circuits have like Oracle models where like this， you send an oracle to the web。

 let's see。Okay， so they compute compute， and then they access some external database to get some answer。

 and then they compute， and then they send another query to the database。

 and then then compute and on so over， the database can be the web。Take so I'm sending a query。

 I get but can answer computers on。Can we。Gitalex improve for such a computation。

That's kind of inspired by machine learning。So that's something that we have now some results。

 but that kind of gives you an the point I'm trying to make is we need to think of different models and different ways to come up with proofs of correctness here。

Now， another thing， you know， when we talk about safety， this， you know， you can ask。

 what does it mean for computers for， for an M O model to be safe。How do you define safety。

And that's a great great question。We don't have a definition of safety。So it seems like， wow。

 how do you even approach it。 It seems like quite what。 Okay， I'll just do math。 It's easier。

 you know， but。Let me go back and remind you about zero knowledge。When they definetertic。

 didn't actually define what knowledge means。So is's okay， what is knowledge， How do you define you。

 That's where it's find knowledge。 I don't know。 How do you find that。 I don't know。But still。

You to define what your knowledge means。It means it's simtable。 They can simulate this conversation。

So my the only point I want to， I want to make is that， yeah。

 Other things also seem very hard to define。 It doesn't mean that it's。But we succeeded。

 So it doesn't mean that we cannot。 It's impossible here。Another example I can tell you， like again。

 these works that have been happening here is here's another example of things we can do。

Suppose we have a bunch of elements。Okay， so we interact with many ofs。Some which are safe。

 What safe means I don't even want it to find because I don't know how to find it。 But by safe。

 I mean， if you got the input for them， you're happy。 you're that's good。Okay。

But you don't know who's safe and who's not safe。 You have access to K L L Ms。Some of them are safe。

 maybe a majority even is safe。But you don't know which ones。

Can you ensure that you get an output which is safe？Now it's a little tangible。

 And let me have give you a reason why you should believe that answer is yes。

Let's say for a second that the output of the L L M is1 bit。 It's a yes， no question。

You can take majority。 if you believe honest or the majority are safe， just take the majority。

To safe answer。I， I don't talk about right or okay， maybe the safeguard are right。

 I just want to get a safe answer。 And if the majority is safe。And the majority says one。

 then one is a safe answer。Now， of course， that's not convincing because when you talk with L L L M。

 it's not a yes， no answer。Often， it。Bbbles on and on and on。Okay， so， and in particular。

 there's a lot of really important problems that arise。Because the L LM sends like， long outputs。

For example， one of the things that people talk a lot about is toography。What if the a is malicious？

And he's trying。 So， you know， today， if you ask CheGPT， you know， how do I commit suicide？

It's going tell you， I cannot tell you that or go get help or the other cannot should not tell you how to commit suicide in the fastest easiest way possible。

 That's considered not safe。Now， but。What that， O， so。But what， So what。

 what open AI does or whatever company they do， If the L M tries to go in that route。

 they immediately block them。 They kind of what the way they block them。

 they kind of give them incentive not to say that basically。 Okay， there's some loss function。

 and they， you know， they set it up so that they won't say something like that。

But what if the LLM tells you how to commit suicide？Kind of in a sganography way that open。

t even know that that's what they're telling you。Okay。

 so maybe they'll output it in a way that they will be penalized for that won't kind of cost reduce their cost function。

But still you， the user may be able to notice。That they're doing it。 Even here's。

 here's a stupid way。 What does they tell you how to， I'm sure Open AI took care of that。 Yeah， but。

 but。I don't know。 They tell you exactly how to commit suicide， but in between to each two letters。

 they write A A， A A A， A A A A， they encode it in some way。But for the user， when you read it。

 it's very easy for you to decode。But it's not clear that， like。You know when you when。

When kind of the engineers set up this L LM， that they think of all these possible ways that the L LM can。

 you know， and co theseinc to penalize them not to be outputted。So stography is a big， big problem。

 And there's a lot of works joint that actually it's impossible to deal to to。To take care to。

 but basically to avoid the L LMs outputting sthanography by just observing the outcome。

 So what you can hope is that， you know， So what the open eye can do， they can run their LLM。

 and then look at the output。 And if they think the outputers are not safe。

 they're not going to output it。You can't do that by observing。😡。

That alone can always do what I basically I said and code the things in a way that you won't be able to observe them as and know like。

 know that they're harmful。So you have to do something beyond just observing to see harm。

And this is not just toography。 Also， you know， people use L Ms to。

 to output code to write code for them。That one one could put inside the code malware。And it's very。

 very hard。 It was also shown by inspection。 You won't be able to note。

 know that there's malware in the code。So these are really。

 really important and difficult problems in machine learning。

Another kind of problem machine learning that actually had received some attention here at M T。

 Shaffi was involved in Viud had a paper on it。And it's with some students， which was on back doors。

What if the model itself， it looks honest？😮，But it puts in some kind of back door that on specific inputs。

 it behaves in a bad way。Nobody knows。 How can you tell if there's a back door。

 There's no back door that kind of behaves in a weird way， specific input。 How do you ensure that。

 how can you remove。IfF will these backdo。Or another thing thats also received actually kind of the first thing that received attention from the theory community。

Was on a， how do you know if you have a motto。How you want to be able to kind of watermark。

The answers of the L L M。 So maybe I want to make sure when you submit your homeworks。

 What if I want to make sure you didn't it's not L L M generated。Okay， so I wanna。

 what I would like to have is that when the L L M generates something。

 I wanted to watermark it so I can check if any of your homeworks has an L L M watermark on it。

Can we whatever？A lot。And this is very important for the future of data protection。 I know， we， we。

 you know， it's kind of。We want to know what's generated by humans， what's not generated by humans。

 can we do it？Or like even in L LMs， you know， how about kind of data right protection。

 How do we know that the L LM is not using data that they shouldn't。

How do I prove to you that my LLM？Is only using public data。So you can come to me and complain。

 maybe I have a company and I journal look， where you took my data。

This LM first shoot to one month no， you generate it on its own。

 How can I prove to you that I didn't use your data。Your secret data。So there's a lot。

 a lot of super， super interesting work to do。And again， the reason I think that you。

 after taking this class， are in position to start working on these things is because。

These things don't actually necessarily require knowledge per se， because it's a very new field。

 It requires adversarial thinking。 That's what it requires。

And trying to understand how to define things correctly， how to define the problems correctly。

 And this is basically what this class was about。How do you define encryption。

 What does it mean not to leak， What does it mean to be authentic， What like all this words of like。

 Sa leaks knowledge doesn't leak knowledge。 It's authentic。 It's not authentic。

 These are things that like， that's what we do every day here in this class。

So I think you guys are exactly the right people in position to try to think about these problems。

 I really think， you know， these are very， very important problems that it's crucial that we in particular people here at MIT try to think about it and try to make any kind of progress。

😊，So that's， I think， more or less， my feel about machine learning。Any， any questions。O， oh。

 by the way， sorry， I'm done with my film machine learning。

 but I forgot I meant to say one more thing in the beginning of class。If you have。

 I would love to hear your feedback。 So anything you have to say。

 any improvements or anything at all， please submit feedback forms。

 I have to say we do take them seriously like I will actually you know。

 try to improve whatever and whatever way whatever feedback I'll get I will take it seriously。

 So please submit and for those who already submit it。 Thank you。 I didn't get it yet。

 but I will get it， then I will take it seriously。 they're not public yet。

 but they will be at end of the class。😊，Okay。Any， any questions。Okay， so now what I'm going to do。

 I'm going to turn this off。