# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p16 6.5620 Lecture on 10⧸27⧸2025 (Mon).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p16-

Hi guys。Here on。Okay， hopefully Tom。So。Today， we're gonna this week， we're going to see really。

 really magical things。 I think we're going to learn fully homo encryption and give you the entire construction with the proof so it should be。

😊，Like really mind blowing I think， but before I start。

 let me just do a recap because you'll see that our fully homomorphic encryption。

 which I'm going to define and construct， is going to be extremely similar to what you have already seen。

 like extremely similar。😊，So let's start with just kind of just a quick recap。

 so last class we started to talk about lattice space cryptography。

We defined our kind of flagship lattice assumption。

 which is the learning with error assumption or LWV。

 and this assumption is associated with four parameters， there's a Q which is the modulus。

 So it means that all the operation or not Q。😊，Well think of Q as being pretty large。

 typically definitely much larger than n and N okay so Q is going Q is going to be really large Q is definitely kind of much larger than n and N often we'll think about Q as being like even super polynomial。

😊，In。Okay， so that's really big and you should usually think of as the security parameter。

M is polynomial， but usually you think of it as being larger than N long Q。

And this is an air vector that should have low norm， typically。A sorry， error distribution。

 And the LW assumption， what it says is that if I have M。Equations。In n variables。

And I give you the equation。 This is the M equation。 So this is in matrix in ZQ M by N。

 So it'll kind of have M equations。And I'm giving you the M equations applied the M linear equations and the secret vector S。

 S is a secret。😊，But I add noise。 and this noise is from。嗯。

Independly sampled from the noise distribution。So each vector is each element here is independently sampled from Chii。

Then the assumption is that it looks completely random。So of course， if there was no noise。

 you can see that given A this has very little entropy， it only has n log Q， bit of entropy。

But the LW assumption says that it's indistinguishable from having M。Wqubits of entropy。Okay。

 we're used completely random in。Sorry， I should say U is completely random in DQ。M。Okay。

 this was the al blue assumption。 Any question about the assumption because were going to use it today。

 too， yes。😊，In the private。And that we covered last class。

So you're like you're trying to break the decisional all。

 so you've got like a matrix that you're given and you sort of feed it to like a。

Right or your your original thing that you were assuming your tongue about the red of encryption scheme now。

 Yeah， okay， we'll get to it or okay， my question was。How what do you do if you run of matrix？

And because like' okay， so let let me answer your question after we look the negative encrypt scheme because it's on I think it's on the encrypt scheme。

 so let me just recall the scheme and then I'll get back to your question。

So this is just the assumption okay our assumption is that it's in the from uniform and this assumption is going to be interesting or the setting we should think about is as we said n is going to be the security parameter M is going to be polynomial in n。

😊，So think about this as pollen。Because we're going to run in time N and M。Okay。

 but it's going to be bigger than NmarkQ， otherwise it's not interesting or I think while you're losing we're going to run out of rows。

 but we'll talk about this in a minute。And kind should generate air vector that are small。 Okay。

 this is just sigma is small， So sigma is。Okay， and it's a parameter， we'll talk about what it is。

 but it needs to be。You know， close to the zero or。啊。Okay， so now let's go to Ra's encryption scheme。

 And I want to recap it in a slightly different notation that's going to be really useful for today's class。

 Okay， so the public key of Ra is just a random matrix A in Z Q M by N。😊，The noisy linear equations。

Okay， but let me think of this。😮，As a matrix B where the last column is this。Okay。

 so it's n by n plus1。So B。😮，Is a。And the last column is AS plus E。Okay。

 so I'm just going to put it in the last column。And。That to be okay。

 so I'm going to think of the public key as being a matrix B。In ZQM by n plus one。Now note。

 this matrix is now random。😮，But by the El assumption， it looks random。Okay， now how do we encrypt？

对对对。actually。The A is random， but B is not。Yeah， a is truly random。😮。

But the last row does not have philanthropy。Sorry。Yeah， no， no， dumb questions here。

 Why random do you mean PR G or do you mean like truly random， It's random in Z Q N by N， it's in。

It's like really uniform， not just indistinguishable。 A is like truly uniform。 Yeah。

 like statistically uniform。 You can generate it， you know， with the PR G， if you want to save。

You know， in practice often， even if things are big in uniform。

 sometimes we generate them using a small seed because then we need to store a small seed as opposed to。

 So there are practical reasons why sometimes you want to use a PRG。

 but here I'm not going to do that。Okay， great， great questions。😊，Now， how do I encrypt？

I take my matrix B， which again is a and the last column being this vector as plus E。😡。

And I encrypt mu before I always called the message M。

 but last class I realized that that's very confusing with the matrix which is dimension M by N so we moved to the Greek M。

 which is mu。😊，Okay， so mu here is going to be， we're going to encrypt bit by bit。 So mu is in 01。

 That's the message space。And the way we encrypt the message you mu 01， what we're going to do。

 we're going to choose a random string R， a bit string R， so R is going to be 01 to them。Okay。

 so now I want to encrypt view。 I choose a random bit string。R so not in Zq， but actually 01 to them。

And I'm going to multiply it by B。Okay， so I'm going to take our。Take。

 take a random bit string and just multiply both publicki。That has nothing to do with the message。

So where does the message come in and can they use this as a mask？To mask the message。

How do I mess the message？I'm gonna。Use this， and then I add to it the message。

Times this kind of gadget vector。Okay， this back to the 20，0，0。

0 in the n plus one coordinate in the sorry in the。N plus1 coordinate， it's going to be Q over2。

I was it cuteな。Sorry， that's a queue， sorry。Thank you。Q， the field the ring size。Great。

How do we decrypt？😮，So what we're going to do。 So the ciphert， maybe I'll call it by C。

This is my for tax。It's an element in ZQ n plus1。😊，Because remember B has n plus1 columns。And now。

 how do I decrypt it， I take my Cyphertex C。I'm going to multiply it。😮，By minus s by the vector。

 the n plus1 coordinate vector。Where the first and coordinate is the secret S or minus S。

And the last one is one。Why is that the way I dec because？Let me maybe I'll just， Oh， you know。

 I can just write it here because its。Remember that B。😮，So because- so now let's see， what is C？

Ts minus S and1。That's just ourB。Plus， mathed with the message that we want encrypt times this gadget。

Q over2。0，0，1。But what is。Times， sorry。Minus S in one。 But what is B times minus S in one。

 Let's see B， when you multiply by minus S in one。You get minus A S。P。A S plus C。Yeah， yeah。 sure。

 Yeah， it's a vector indeed。 So let me。Can you write it here， maybe？Let me write it here。Minus S。

And one is just the vector minus S1 minus SN。S is the secret key。 So you can think of S。

As being S1 up to Sn。Z Q N。And this is just minus minus and1。Okay， so this is in。Z cube。And plus one。

Now here's what we need to note that the public key be。When you multiply it by minus S and1。

 So one is kind of small and everything here is minus S。This is just B， remember， it's a。

 and the last column is like A S plus E。And you multiply it by minus S。And one here。Sorry。

 I don't know how to it's minus S， but this minus S is kind of everywhere。And one。Then what you get。

 you get。😮，Minus sorry， minus A。From this part， plus plus。A plus E。Which is just？Yeah。

Right when are B is a and the noise and and the noisy linear equation。

And when you multiply by minuss 1 minus S2 to minus n and 1。😊，Then what happened。

 you'll have a times like the first row time minus S plus this。

 the second row time minus S plus this， thats third rows and so forth。 So you'll get minus A S。Plus。

 the last drone， A for C， so you'll get。Why is that good？Now， so when we decrypt what we get， we get。

😮，Let me call this。😮，T， we should think of tea as actually being our secret。Okay。

 I know S is are secret， but you can。Thinking best is the secret of minus acid than one is the secret。

It doesnn't matter。 You can go from one to the other easily。

But it's nice to think of this as our secret。 Why， Because if we think of our secret。😊，As being tea。

Then the way we decrypt is we just do C times T。 That's a decryption。

 we compute that and we check if it's small or not。What happened when we do this？This is。2比。Plus。

 mu times this gadget。You willturn。All these time tea。Which is？R times B T， B times T。

 but this is small。Because B times T。So this is small。😮，Is actually equal to E。Plus。😮。

Mux our message times a basically disgadget vector， I guess。😮，0，0， cube 2。Times。T。

So now what do we have now， now， O， so now when do。If mu is zero。This goes away。Sorry。

 I have you extra。If mu is 0， this goes away。And we only have this。 Our time small is small。

Because r is is 01。😡，So it's a big， you know， it's 01， you basically add worst case。

 you add all these e vectors。😡，But E ist like between， let's say， minus sigma sigma。

 We just need to ensure that。啊。E， that sigma times n is small。 let's say much smaller than cube of 4。

Okay， so it's still air。 I want to think of even if you're multiplying the air by M， it's still air。

 it's still small。😡，On the other hand。Once you take commute and multipied by T， what happened？😡。

I is just this is mu times。Q over2。Because remember that the last coordinate is one。So this is big。

So in one case， you have small。And then。case if means one， you get cube2。Plus， mine is small。

Which is big。So that's why decryption works。Okay， this is just a recap of rig。But as I said。

 we'll see the full removal encryption that we'll see today is really almost the same scheme。Okay。

 so now questions。 And I'm ready to go to your question。 So I think your question was。

When we decrypt， how do we know that we have enough。Equations are oh， in the CPA game。です。哎。

You're assuming you can like。You're assuming you've got something up great。

You're trying to insert you like make a E that can like distinguish， decisional LWE。

 and you're handed a matrix， and then you're handing rows of that matrix to the object that wins this。

It nonbegligible probability right and it can do that like poly like your security parameter times。

 So what happens if you run out of rows from the original matrix you can Okay。

 so let lets let's go over the security game for a second。 the CP So why is the secure Okay。

 let's go over this So the reason it secures the following we say and again well go we'll see it's the same security proof when you'll do that。

 So it's a good good you know warm up。 We'll say the following。 we say suppose there's an adversary。

That can cheat。Okay can you know， we give them a public key。And then he chooses。

 then we give him either encryption of0 or encryption of  one。 And he can tell which。

 which we encrypted。 So what is the CPA game here， It's bitwise encryption。 It's bit by bit。

 So basically， in the CPA security game。We give the adversary a public key。So， we give him B。

And his only can compute whatever encryptions he wants。 He has the public key。

And then we give them either encryption or zero or encryption of one。

 So we give them an encryption of a random mu。And he successfully guesses with probably better than half。

 what's the mu。 That's the game。 Well， I was thinking of the the the private key。

 like the non public key version of the game， right， where。

Your algorithm than choosing how many times how long of a matrix gets。The。Oh， okay， okay。

 you're saying the secret key version。You can So， okay， so for the secret key version。 Okay。

 the secret key version， the adversary is getting kind as many。😊，As many。Rose as he wishes。

 and then the L assumption will lead to be with respect to N M， which is poly N。So namely。

 or in other words， if you have an adversary， if you want to be secure against adversary。

 they're run in time M。You need emerals。 Basically， you need LWE with emerals。Or， you know， or。

Or sorry， if you use your M， let me， sorry， let me do the parameters better。 If the number。

 if you use。Yeah， so in yeah， so in our game， every time you give one row， right。

 So if the address runs in time T。You need the LW with M which is T。Yeah。Great， great question。Yeah。

 question。Great， great。 Can we encrypt more than one bit， yeah。Great， great， great。 Okay。

 so the question is。Of course， we you can give long messages by bit by bit by bit。

 But when you're saying， this is a bit wasteful。Can't we shove in more， for example。

 maybe if we instead of Q over two here？😮，Put Q over three。

Then we can have here like we can maybe encrypt kind of 01 or two。And more generally。

 you can do Q over L and encrypt 0，1 to L indent， yes， And actually in practice。

 that's how things are done。 Things are shoved。 So， yes。

 you can do it more efficiently and you can kind of。😊，You know， package more in one side per text。

 And I'm doing this only for the sake of simplicity， yeah。So I didnt talk about foliomorphmorphic。

 but the answer is in practice people put even when they describe when I'll describe the fooliomorphic encryption。

 which is very this is not foliomorphic， but I'll describe the foliomorphic scheme。

 even there they kind of package more bits in one typeex。In kind of in a similar way。

 I can talk about when I'll show the scheme。Which is very similar， as they said， but not identical。

Any other questions， I like your questions， so they're great。😊，Okay。

 so then let's go to fully homework encryption。So basically， the idea。

Of a fully homomorphic encryption is， well， if you remember， actually， before I go over。

 if you remember。this scheme， negative of scheme。😮。

Is what we said is it's homomorphic with respect to exor， namely。In re gaveve。

We showed that if you take an encryption。With public key and the message me1。And you add to it。

An encryption。Of another message and you too。when I mean add， I mean， this is a vector。

 this is a vector。 So coordinate wise， add the two vectors coordinate wise。 Then what we get。

 And that's kind of what we saw last time。 what we get is actually an encryption of B and xor of the messages。

And essentially the reason is。😊，That。When you take one。Cphertex。With our one and new one。

And you take another Cyphert with R2 and mu 2。And you add them up。Where you get here is r1 plus R 2。

 So not in 01， but close， you know， kind of 01 and 2。

And the mus are going to be like mu one plus mu2。But because we multiplied by Q over2。

 it's basically similar to mu1 x or U2。Because if you take mu 1 plus mu2。😡。

If both of them are one and you have your two， two times cube two is like 0。Mardq。So yeah。

And you're trying to put more bits in like a sort of。Like the right sort of。Great。Addition。

 like doesn't。YouOh you're doing Q over。EIf you're doing Q over L。

 the only thing that you need to be， okay， then yeah， if you're doing Q over L。

 the addition will be kind of model and not matteru。And then you need to be， yeah。

You'll get a addition Maral。 if you want my2， Yeah， currently all you get is a dish Mar， indeed。

 exactly。Okay， so we saw that know you have this homomorphism。

But it's only homomorphic with respect to exor。Okay， in your in your homework。

 you have an exercise to show that like the Godesle Miikali encryption scheme is also homeworkmorphic with Xor。

Look at the Igaman encryption scheme that we saw。 turns out it's homomorphic with spec applicationplication。

Over the group。 So let me just。Next week there's a midterm， let's maybe recall。Just for fun。

Let's look just just show you that you've seen no one of it encryptions all along。 Okay。

 so let's remember what gelgamal is。 So in Algamal。The public key is G to the S， G is a group。

S is the secret key。😊，And when you want to encrypt。With public with the G to the S。A message， M。

What you do， you choose a G to the R for a random R， which is the order of the group。😡，And。You mask。

😮，With our dots。And M is also in the group。If you take here， let's say M1。With our one。

 and you take you encrypt M2。With another R， with a fresh R， R2。Yeah， and again， this is encrypted。

 You take G to the R1 and G to the S to the R1。 G to the S is the public key。

 It's a public encryption。And similar， you can encrypt。Another message， M2。The same one。

You choose a random R2。Within the so R1 and R2。R1 and R2 are chosen randomly in ZQ in Z the order of the group。

That we're working with。Okay， and then or， or the order of the generator。

 I guess Im think of Jesus generator。 Okay， so。So now， so again， you take random R2。

 you raise the generator to the power of R2。 The generator is fixed。

 So there's a group G and a generator G。And then you take the public in of the S。

 you you raise it to the power of R2， and you multiply by M2。Now， if you multiply these two。😮。

So now the claim is when you multiply。With M1。You modifyly it， sorry。Okay。

 when you multiply the first coordinate， multiply coordinate by coordinate， okay。

 when you multiply these two coordinates and you multiply these two coordinates。

That's what I mean by multiply。 It's coordinate wise multiplication。And two， what you get。

 you get G to the r1 plus R2。And when we multi apply these， you get G to the R1 plus R2 S。Times M100。

This is an encryption of M1 time1 2。So product。So we have a scheme that's you know homomorphic with respect to products over the group。

 we've seen schemes that are homomorphic with respect to XO。

But we want something that homopho to both exor， both addition and multiplication，Yeah， okay， good。

 Yeah。 So if R1 and R2 are random， then R1 plus R2 alone are random。 But by the way。

 when we talk about homomorphic。I'm not necessarily- I don't necessarily require。

The thehomorphic ciphertext will look exactly。The same distribution as the original cybertext。

I want to be able to decrypt it。Even in regggi， by the way。Note that the homomorphic Cyphertex。

It looks like actually in the right of it looks like like a fresh effortphert。

 but it's really not like the air grows。A little bit。So when you add in re。

 when you add a two cipher texts。Like one signphert is r and01。Times B， when you add two cipherax。

 you're going to get R in 0，1，2。To them。 So it it's not going to be the exact or another word。

 when you decrypt。And you'll multiply by T。And encrypt value I did encryption of0。

 the noise is going to be a little bigger。Okay， so currently。

 I'm not requesting it has the exact distribution。 All I want it to be when， you know。

 I can generate without kind of knowing if you give me encryption of one in encryption of 0 or encryption of M1。

 encryption M2， I can without knowing what you encrypted。

 I can generate an encryption of another like Cytext corresponding to their addition or to their multiplication。

Okay。Great， great question。By the way， if you want the ciphert to look。To locally。

 to appear to be fresh。There's a name for it。 It's called circuitic privacy。

 Well maybe I'll mention it later。 But people， it's a desired property， but I'm not requiring it。

Any other questions？Okay， so we've seen。schemes， encryption schemes that are homo focusedal respect exor。

 We've seen encryption schemes that are homo focusedal vector multiplication， at least in the group。

But what I really want is a scheme that's one scheme。 that's a amorphical perspective， both addition。

And multiplication。And in particular， I want to skin that some more to addition Ma2 and multiplication。

 Mau。 Imy beds's always Mau。And why do I， why and I claim that if I have a scheme that's homomoic respect both。

Then it's much， much better it's it's completely different type of homomorphism。

Because it's very desirable， because。The addition and multiplication mod2 are complete。Namely。

Any efficient function computable by lets a polynomial time trim machine？

I can write as a polynomial size circuit with only addition math two gates and multiplication Ma two gates。

😊，So， any。Any efficient function。I can compute by just doing additional application not2。

So if I'm a mumorphic。😮，Respect the addition multiplication now too。 I whom respect that。

And that's kind of wow， so I can do anything I want under the hood of the more of the encryption scheme。

😮，That's very， very powerful。Okay， that's kind of what I want to show how to do today。

So let me define。What， let me first define。The feedback will be clear。

Then we'll talk a little bit about motivation and then we'll construct。Okay。So definition。

Question before I define this notion for， yeah。You can negate your sin。

Because negation is like multiplying by a scalar， right， like by -1。Yeah， that you。

 you can do that with additional， indeed， yeah。Yeah， because you can， you can think of it。

 You can always。Take in I mean， take up。Take an encryption。 You can always。Well， okay诶。In， in。

When you do mat 2，-1 and 1 are the same。So it's， I mean。

 there's no minus I talking when you're binary， there's no really。Oh， oh， oh yeah。 Yeah， yeah。

 You want to， you want to go from yeah。 So what you'll do if you have， you'll， So what you can do。

 for example， you can take an encryption。 You can generate an encryption of one。And you're wrong。

 because it's publicly key and then subtract it from your encrypt encrypted Cy fortexing。

 That's going to be an negation。For in this specific instruction， yes， yes。Yeah。

 for this specific conduct， there's other way to do it。 But in general， if I have。Okay， great。

 Any other questions。Okay， so let's see this syntax。 So a a。

 so let me define a homomorphic encryption。Enccryption scheme。

Let me denote it with respect to anyone I denote it like fully fully amorphic。

 let me first denote it with respect to a family circuit class。C， where let's know by C。

Where every sea。In C，2。It just is a circuit that goes from 01 to the L。To 0，1。

So suppose I want to define amorphic encryption that allows you。

To only do homomorphic computations for circuits in this class。

Eventually we'll show homomorphic computations for any polyi circuits。 but for now。

 let's define it kind of for some class。😊，It can be just exhors。ItWhat we saw。

 But I wanted to find a general class。So it consists。Of4。Efficient or PT。Algorithms。Algorithm。

 so it's the gen。Enrypt and decrypt， that's just standard。And Evan， that's the new thing。Okay。

The syntax for Gen encrypted decrypt is what you saw。 That's you're used to it。 So Jen。

Take its input security parameter。 It will output a pair of public key and the secret key。

Enncryptpped。We'll take an input a public key and a message we're going to only think about with respect to。

Circuit class this。And the message space。0ero，1。One can generalize it， but for now。

 let me define it this way because its just going make my life easier。So Miss An Circuit class。Okay。

 so the encryption just outputs a cipher tax。😊，Deryption， just decrypt。

So it takes the secret key and the cipher text， and it outputs a message。And Eval。

 that's the interesting one， Eval。Takes us in input， a circuit。See in this class， oh， maybe first。

It takes an input the。Did I write it with public parameterss？It takes input the public key。

It takes a circuit C from this class。And it takes safer text。CT1 of the CTL。In K C is in Seattle。

 So if this is in。See how。And it outputs。Some cpher attacks tell them。Sly what Eval does。

 it evaluates this circuit。Under the hood of the corresponding messages。Okay。

 now what is what's the requirement？So we have three requirements。One of them is correctness。

 and here's the correctness requirement。Correct， this says。That。The probability。

Let's see the probability。 So if we choose。Shi。In。Okay， so heres what it says。

So only for every polynomial。E， El is polynomial in Landa。嗯。The following holds。For。

What security parameter？Or let me there exists a negligible。

Some negligible function such that for every lambmbda and for any circuit C。😊，In C。

And for every possible messages Mu1 up to Muel。In01。The probability。That。When you decrypt。

The privacycy is over a public key and secret key。From Jen。The probability that you decrypt。

 given a secret key。And an evaluated site fort。😊，With public key。And circuit C。Of。Encryption。

A we one。Up to encryption。Of Muk。Of muel， sorry。So the probability that this decryption。Indeed， I。

Of mu1 up to muL， what it should。Output。Is19 is my go。And this probably are also over randomness。

Of the encryption algorithm。Okay， so again， what does this say。

 It says for any L at most polymial security parameters。 So if any polynomial L。

There exists a negligible， we allow some negligible air， such that for any lambda。哎。

Circuit C in the loud homomorphic， kind of in the class of homomorphic circuits， Cbel。

And for any possible inputs to see， mu went up to mu out。If we encrypt。

These messages mu went up to Muel。And then we try to compute C under the Haival。

 So we run theval algorithm。With a public key and the circuit see。Given disciplecipher attacks。😊。

What you will get here。😮，Is some safer text tilda that when you try to decryptptic。

You'll indeed get the circuit C applied to mu1 of to muL。So this correct， yeah。No。

 probabilitybil one is not too much to ask， and you can get probability1。

But then you just need to be a little bit careful with edge cases。

 But we know how to get probability 1。Actually， what we'll see today we get probability probability1。

But usually， it's defined with more manuscript little historically， because。In some schemes。

 you need to work。To get one and sometimes who cares negligible is like 0。

 So people don't want to work。 So they just add the negligible and make it easy。But great question。

 Great question。Okay， any questions about the correctness。佢 comes up comes婶 yeah。So。Oh。

 great question。 Great， great question。 So what I think your question is。

 what if we try to do what we call multih。😊，Hmorphic encryption。 What do you mean by multihp。

Suppose I generated some fresh encryptions。And then I applied Yvan。To these。

Encryptions and I got a you evaluated encryptions。Cyphertex Tilda。And suppose I do that。

 I got separate text till the one separate separate text till the two and so on and so forth。😊。

Obtains are evaluating。Now， can I apply Val to them？And the answer is not always。Not always。

 sometimes no， sometimes， yes， it depends on the scheme。In our case。It depends on the parameters。

So basically， it's not， first of all， it's not required。 Okay。

 this is what's called a multih encryption scheme。II'm just defining regular。

 so it's not required by definition。 for our specific case， you can ask。

 well the skin that we show will satisfy this。And the answer is yes。Up to parameter。

 So what happens in our scheme。As you may anticipate from regggi。

 there's going to be like an error and each Cy will have an air。And the more operations you do。

 the more the error will grow。And if you try to do multi， you'll get to incur more and more air。

 So you can't w， but there's an air bound that you need to be careful with。

So the answer is it's complicated for asking， but in general， it's not required。Okay， yeah。You one。

没有。欠款。So， okay， if you want to do not over 0，1， like one thing you can try to do。

Is over like you can。The。What you can do is like， if you try them to。Instead of two， put like。

 let's say three， and then you're going to be homomorph focusedous back to one and 2 and three。

But then you need to think of the circuit as having additionaloc mark 3。So it's a bit weird。

 The way usually people packages is a bit different。 They don't do it Mo 3。 They do it kind of。

Let me not get into it， because it's。Getting packaging more efficiently is not a trivial thing。 It's。

 it's a bit complicated， yeah。Not okay， one second again so。呃，我。The semantic security， when you eile。

 you don't get anything。 Everything is under the hood。 So Evalier doesn't learn anything。

gets he's an efficient algorithm， he gets a public key and he gets Cyt。So。Nothing is leaked here。

 He can generate thesecipherax like he is completely blind。

So the homomorphism doesn't impact security。 It's only about completeness。That。When you so。Actually。

 let me let me so here I only talked about completeness correctness or completeness。

 And then there's also security and the security。Requirement is that if you just look at。Yeahen。

Encrypted decry。😊，Forget about design。I is CPA secure？

So security has nothing to do with to value that is only there for correctness。

Do you have a question？23。地壳。Do we want？Oh， oh， you're saying， okay。

 what if we decrypt not evaluated cyber tax。应那算一下。You subject包括。Sorry。

 do I want the decoding of a fresh Cyphertex tool probability1。Yeah， good。 So yeah， for Cyphertex。

 I'm willing to have one9 with parbote and ball。This see。Does circuit costs mean like？Good， okay。

 so what does the circuit class mean。One second， What does the circle class mean。

 You can think the circle line is just xores。You can think of the circuit classes all poly time computations。

You can think of the circuit class as all circuits。

 So you can think of the circuit class of all circuits of size at most S。As of lambda。Or like SL。

 Okay for some S。 only like。Yeah， right。All of them do。Or what I second。No。

 because if you take in our case， if you take all the functions。

 you also are going to take functions that are very， very big。

And functions that are2 billion in our case will never do the crafting because there's gonna be too much accumulation of noise。

So we're only gonna have for our case， we're only gonna to have circuits that have a bounded number of multiplications and additions。

Buned by concert bound by。Okay， think of L security parameter。 so the question is。

For like four circuits that take security parameter number of inputs。What's in the class cease about？

😡，That's the question， really， think of a circuits that take Klamda to give around number。

 what incis about。And what we're going to have in this circuit is only computation that are kind of have bounded number of gates。

 Now， you can ask bounded by how much。Lambda gates like L Gs。

 L square gates out to the fourth gates eventually， we'll see construction。

 We can get like L being super polynomial， even in in Lambda， like Lambda to the log Lambda gates。😊。

Okay。And you'll never need more than polynomial， but I don't want to bound it by a fixed。

 I don't want to say enter the lambda to the third。

 because then say what if I want lambda to the fourth， fine， lambda to the fourth。

 So any take some ceiling， you know， of all polynomial。

 So Lada to the log lambda is kind of an example。We'll be able to。

we're going to show for encryption scheme with spectra。That size。 So basically。

 all polynomial time functions。Do you have a question？Here's more like。Okay， but we're good。 Okay。

 okay， great， great。Yeah。This is also like for any trans not。So for each person see it one。Yeah。

 it's for any seat。 Yeah， yeah， yeah， yeah。 that's important。

 I don't want any seas that you'll always fail on。Yeah， it's for any message in anything。

The only randomness is over kind of the No， no， no， the muse for every knew。

 The only randomness is over the public isn the randomness of the encryption。Basically。

 what happens in the encryption sometimes there is an air。 And if the air like we truncate the air。

 right， but if the， for example， if we didn't truncate it and very rare， it's long， then you lose。

So there are some。 But again， in our case， we're gonna have perfect。 So don't worry。

 But in some skins in the literature， in some rare cases， the air happened to kind of grow too much。

 And then you're doomed。呀。You right， but even in our case， the public key。

 we can assume soon doesn't have error。 I mean， sorry， even in our case。

We can assume that for every like valid public key， Any public key that generated from G is holds。

For our construction。But and defining is kind of。Okay， so thats so we have correct we have security。

We're missing one we have one more property that we need to make this homomorphic encryption nontrial。

Okay， so under this looks like a good definition， are you happy？😊，If you're happy。

 I'm going to construct you really I'm going to construct you， you are really annoying。

Hmorphic encryption。That satisfied these conditions。 and you're going to be really annoyed at me。

Unless someone notices what's missing。啊。😮，Suppose the circuit classes are even all colonial size circuits。

You're right。 the circuit classes。But for any circuit。SoHere's my instruction。

Take your favorite CP secure your encryption。Okay， Goldda or Mili， whatever you like。

Here I'm going to make it homomorphic。 So， you know。

 it satisfies the security satisfy and just need to give you I， right？So antiryption。

 So let me tell you how you eile。Val。Takes this input a public key， a circuit。Ccipher text。

And here is what it outputs。 It outputs。See。And the Cyex。How do you decrypt。

 So this is another Cytext。How do you decrypt it， Well you decrypt all of these in a place。So morph。

 I mean。I love， I love your looks。 I get like。It's wife。I。Defined valid。

Doest decryption do some sort of parsing？Oh， so let me define， sorry。 So let me define。

 I'll define decption。 So my new decryption algorithm。Yeah， exactly。 the decryption kind of。

 if it has like a yeah， fine。 yeah。 So if when normal encryption is0。

 and if you there are some bits like a flag。😊，That is set to 01， if it's0。

 you just decrypt if it's  one， then you decryption apply C。嗯， yeah。Okay， great。

 So one way to get around it is to say， okay， so let's add a condition and the condition。😊。

One option to say， I want the evaluated cphertex to look like real cphertex。

And then definitely this does not look like a priceciphertex， this is really annoying cphertex。

So I'm not going to require that， even though that that's what we call circuit private。

 like you really looked like fresh， so you didn't learn anything like how I evaluated or anything。

Sometimes it's useful this property。 I'm not going to require it。

 but at least let me require that the evaluatedd separatet are。Small， like， let me require another。

 So the last thing is compactness。And let me just require that。Evaluated typephote the sign。

Is like a size of a normal cycle。Here it the see。You know， need to express sea， you need to。

 this is really non compact。And the reason。 And so now， let me tell you why， why this is。

Really not like。Why all I want is really compassionate。 So now let's talk about motivation。

 Why do we care about folimorph conion。Okay， so let me tell you a little bit about kind of the history of of and the application。

 So this was actually defined by Reve Aelman and distorts here at MIT in 1978。It wasn't constructed。

They just said， won't it be great？If we had like a fully homomorphic encryption， this is 1978。

Right when the birth of public encrypt came about。OK。

And why do we really want this fully homomorphic encryption， Because then。We can outsource。

Our data in a private way and have someone else do all our computations for us。

So why do we want to do it， Because now what we can do is。We put our data elsewhere。

 And now because maybe we have a lot of data。 We don't have the capacity to you know。

 to run computations。 So instead what we're going to do， we're going to put everything in the cloud。

 but we want security， right， So we want privacy。 We care about the privacy of our data。

 So we'll put it encrypted。We can tell the cloud oh。Compute this computation for us。

 Do this computation for us。 Do this computation for us。Now， if he comes and tells， oh sure。

 I did it， I throw it right back at you with all your data， that's really not what we wanted。😡。

want if I go and come go over all my photos。And give me the photo that I took with my col in 2012。

 I don't want to come back with all my photos， I encrypted what good does that do？

I want to succeed typepher text， I want the photo back， basically encrypted。So at least I want。

To be like a seismism， no， does it have to look say no， I'm going to say no， it depends on other。

 like in this example。it looks fresh or not。You know， I just want， I don't want to work hard。

There are cases where our applications were actually want circuit privacy as well。 But for now。

 that's kind of， that's how I want you to think of it。 Okay， I have a lot of data。

I throw all this encryption to a cloud， all my data。

 And now I want the cloud to do computations for me， but I don't want to learn anything。

 and I want to get back if I want to get back you know， a bit。 that's a function of all my data。

 I want to get back a bit。 not all my data are like a huge thing back。Okay。

 so that was kind of the motivation。😊，And then there was a question， can we do it？Okay， so again。

 fullymorphic encryption was。😊，De finded in 1978。And then。Let me make sure that I got the date right。

Think so。え。Okay， so was defined in。I don't have the data here for some reason。 I think it's 1978。嗯。

O啊。And here at MIT by Reve Adelman and Dtsosis。And then there was a question， can we do it。Open。

We don't know how Nobody succeeded。Over for years， decades。Then。In 2008。30 years later。Okay。

 this kind。You know， when I was here a student at MIT， it was still an open problem。

 I graduated in 2006。And I remember thinking， well， if we had such a dream。

 then we can do this if we had such a dream， but it seemed like。I。

 I don't know if I people believe that it's possible。 I'm trying to remember what the belief was。

 like， did people bet it's possible or not。My memory is that if there was a bed。

 the bedt was that it was impossible to do。It was not at all clear。But you can do this。And then 2008。

A student from Stanford。Submitted a paper to conferences， fully homoic encryption。

Nobody knew who this name is cr Gentry。I think it was maybe the first paper he published in cryptography。

Solve the problem。Gave a volume of encryption scheme。Really an amazing scheme。

 I'm not going to show you gentry scheme because it's complicated。

 but since then there were simplification。 So his， his scheme。

 Gentry scheme was not actually under L WE。 It uses ideal latticees。 It was a bit more complicated。😊。

But then Vi know here at MIT together was threeca was a postdoc， I think at the time here。😊。

Improved it to make this scheme under eligible uni， So kind of more standard assumption。

And the scheme I'm going to show you today is of Gentry Saha and waters， GSW。 and that's。

 I think the simplest version also under LW。 and it's a very simple kind of scheme。 So okay。

 so now let's take a couple like two minute break。 and then we we'll start the GSW。

 Oh question first。😊，哦。呃，确定了。How， how do you compress Like。

 I give like take take like a GMW Mii encryption or take your favorite public encryption。

How can you compress。还有谁？Yeah。Good， so good。 The question， why is it called fully homomorphic。

 So this is not actually fully， I didn't write fully。

 It's homomorphic with respect to a certain class。A fully homomorphic is a skin that automatically could respect to any polynomial time computation。

😊，And it's full because we think everything is polynomial time。 There's nothing like， you know。

 we're all polynomial time machines。 And if you can homomorphically evaluate any efficient function。

 then it's fully homomorphic。And I'm going to show we're going to see a skin that's fully homoic。

Like， you can you can do any polyial time computation or poly size circuit under that。Okay。

Other questions。Okay， let's take a too minute break。 and then we'll continue。

