# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p07 6.5620 Lecture on 9⧸24⧸2025 (Wed).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p7-

对。还大子。So。Where were we so last time， last on Monday。

 we defined the notion of CPA secure encryption where the goal is now where we want to have an encryption scheme that remains secure even if the adversary sees many cipherts。

 basically as many Cyts as he wants， which he can choose even adaptively and we you know even if he gets all this information we still want the scheme to be secure and we define this notion as CPA secure encryption scheme。

And， and then we constructed it。 How do we construct it。 We defined this notion of a PRF。

 A pseudo randomum function， which is a generalization， in some sense， of pseudoandum generator。

So we defined this notion of a PRF。 We showed that if we had a PRF。

Then we also have CP secured equipment。And then we kind of spend time constructing a PRF。And。

 but we didn't get a chance to prove that it's a PRF。 And that's what we're gonna to do today。

 So today， we're gonna recall the construction。The PR of construction。 And we're going to。

T secure that attend to piano。And once we do that towards the second half of class。

 we're gonna move on to the topic of authentication。K， which is very different。So that's the goal。

 Let me first before I start just to remind you of the definition of a PRF。

 and there's something that last time I kind of gloss over too quickly So I want to make sure I explain it better and please you know if you don't ask questions in class which I hope you do But if at some point after a class you remember there was a question you wanted to ask please come because then it helps me kind of because of these questions。

 you know I figure out like oh yeah， I should have explained that better or this better and then I can come back and try to fix it So I really appreciate your questions。

Okay， so what's the definition of a PRF， We basically， a PRF is a function that looks random。 Okay。

 it's not like a random function。 It's like to describe。

 but you need like a truth table size to to that if it's really random。

But a PR is an efficient function。It's an efficiently computable function。

That so you can compute it efficiently， but it looks if all you see is kind of F on a given key of input X 1。

 x 2， x 3， whatever。It looks like it's a truly random function。Okay， so basically。

 a peer takes input a key。And an input from some input space。 And it outputs an output。 Okay。

 the key we all think of as being a lamb bit string。The chi， which I think of is the input space。

 we can think it Also Lada sometimes N of lambda doesn't really matter。

And can be also Lambda can be 1 B。 It can be， you know， we we can， So this is like。

 think of it this is lambda bit。 This is some lambda or polynomial in Lambda。

 And this can be even 1 B。 It's interesting or also lambda， whatever。 So there's options。😊。

And we say it's secure。 It's a PRF， if。不。Poly science adversary， who tries to distinguish。

Between the PR and truly random。He will succeed only with neg probability。 So for anypolivers。

 or exist negligible。Such that the adversary will distinguish between having oracle access。

To the PR function or oracle axis， to the truly。functionction。

He will succeed in distinguishing in distinguishing between these two。

 only with negligible new probability。Okay， now a few comments。 First。

 this probability is over a randomly chosen key。In the key space， which I assume is 01 to the lambda。

This probability is over a truly random function。 So here are。Truly random。Okay。

 so now this anniversary。He gets to ask as many oracle calls as he wants。 He can。You know。

 ask to see X 1， and he gets back F K and X 1。 He can get task X2。 He gets F K。

 X 2 and so on and so forth。This guy also gets test whatever he wants。

 And every time he asks a question。If the first time that the question was asked。

 he gets a truly random answer。And if it's the second time the question was asking。

 is's going to get the exact same answer，He as allll give different questions。

One point which I didn't explain last time， which was my mistake， is the following。

give the algorithm one to the lambda。 So this algorithm has oracle access。To the function。

 But then I give it 1，1，1，1，1 Lada times。 What is that， yeah。曹清。Exactly it exactlyly right。

 So it gives the algorithm now he knows what Lada is， but also because we this is， by the way。

 this is a hack of theorists。 Okay， because we model the adversary is poly size。

 poly size and what in its input， but it doesn't have an input。So Paul says and what。 Okayk。

 so we give him an input size Lada。 Now he's polyize in Lada。Okay。

 so it's just a hack to basically ensure that to allow the adversary to run in time Po lambda。

 You can also just give them lambda。 It's input and just say it runs in time。 Po lambda。

 It's the same， but。Typically， that's kind of our convention。 Okay。

 we give him like one to the lambmbda just means that he runs in time Pony Lada because he's poly in his input and also gives him the option to know what Lada is。

O看。So this is the definition of a pur。Any question about the definition or anything from last time。

Or any time in the class。Okay。Okay， so let me quickly recall the construction。

 the G GM construction of a PRF。 So last time we last part of class。

 we constructed a PRF from any PR G。So I want to recall the construction and then prove that it's secure。

So what so the GGM construction？So we assume we have。 So we're going to construct a PR from any PR G。

So， we assume we have。来拘一。From 0，1 to the lambda。To 0，1。To the two栏。B ARG。

So I'm assuming I have a PR G that stretches kind of lambda bits So two lambda bits。And as we said。

 if you give me a PR G that stretches even1 bit， we can。Kind of concatenated with。

 like iterated with itself to get too la。So I can assume that I have a PR G that stretches to two lamb bits。

Right， and remember， a PR G just means。That you cannot distinguish between G of if you're given G and a random seed。

 a random lambda bit string。 It looks like it's random over 2 lambda bits。

That's the definition of a PR G。 And now we're going to use this PR G to construct a PRf。

And how does the construction work， So here's our P right。So PF and input K， and let's say x。

Here's what it does。You start with。You think of your king as a state to the Pegi。See。

YouWhen you apply G to it。You get。I'm going to call it K this。 let's call this K。

 So let me call this K Okay， I'm going to call this K 0 and K1。 Both of them are landda bits。And K0。

 K1。Is just to G。Of the of， of the key。 Okay， so I take my key。I applied the PR G to it。

They get two keys。Now， based on the first bit of X。So with the first bit of x。0， I go here。

 If the first bit of x is one， I go here。Now， wherever I went， I applied Jean。To get k 0，0， K 0，1。

 If I was here， I applied G again to get。10 or K11。 And again， this is just an application of G。Undi。

And then where do I go to depend on the second bit of x。So if X here。

 let me call it x1 after I don't know what the length here， maybe X N， let's say。Then I， if x1 is 0。

I go here。If x1 is 1， I go here。 And then let's say X 1 is 1。I go here。 So 0 means left。

 One means right。Okay， and then， you know， let's say it's here。 Then again， I continue。 I get k 0，1。

0， K 0，1，1。 And let's say， sorry， this is x 2。 let's say x3。Is 0。Finally， let's say N is3。

 This is the output of the pi。So the output of the PRF， I basically， I generate a tree。Of depth N。

 okay， this will be a tree of depth。And and being the and being if。Ki of lambda。

 let's say I mean de by 0，1 to the n and can be lambda。 Okay just the general。

 So if I'm going construct a PR。Where， whatever。What space you want。Okay， so。

 I want a PRf that takes lambda bit key and an input of length2 lambda lambda to the10th， whatever。

 Tell me the n you want。I'll generate the PR for you。In my PR。

 I basically do this kind of up to depth N。 I generate this depth n tree。 Now。

 I never need to generate。 generating a depth n tree will take me time to the N。

 I'll never actually generate this entire tree。But every time I have X。

I'll just generate the relevant path。Okay， so if I have x being let's say， 0，1，0。I'll only compute。

 I'll compute K0 K1， but I don't care about this part of the tree。

 I care about this part of the tree。 So I'm never going compute this part of the tree。

And then next part one， I only care about this part of the trino。So every time I basically run。

 I basically compute。And。PR Gs。Okay， so when I want to compute the PRF and an input of Li to N。

 let's say chii is， is 0，1 to the N N of lambda， of course。

Then the number of PR G computations I need to do is N。I do one PRG here。And then basic。

 on where where I go， I do one PR G here。 And then based on where I go。

 I do one PR G and so on so forth until I get to the relevant。Okay， and the output of the PRf。

Is the key。Sitting in the relevantly。Of course I have two to the n kind of。

And each leaf sits at the end at the end of one path。And that's going to be the output of the PRF。

So this is a PRF with lambda bit output。If you want1 bit output， just take the first bit。

 If you want too long bit output， apply PR G to it。Okay， so basically。

 I can make the output as small or as large as I want as as long as it's at most poly security parameters。

Which is always， by definition。So that's how I construct the P。Any questions about the construction。

I really want a question。You're good。Yeah I。I don't understand。 And I want you to repeat。

 is also a good question。Yeah， thumb up， comes out。UpO， great。 fantastic， okay。So now。

Let's prove security of this。And。Let me first tell you the intuition。

 and then we'll give the construction。So the basic intuition for why this is secure is。

 So me take this down。 the basic intuition。First， I want to say， okay， you know what。

 let me change the construction。And instead of putting here K0 and K1。That came from a PR G。

Suppose I put here truly random pay you pay1。So suppose my actual， So you're saying。

 why is it secure。 Okay， Supp there is an adversary that actually breaks it。 So actually， let me。

 let me actually start writing here the proof and then we'll continue to fill out。

 So here's the proof。So， suppose。There exists。Poly size adversary。 So suppose it's not secure。 Yes。

 so there exists。Polyized adversary and a nonegligtable function。 Do you can distinguish。

little problem。 So supposeupp or exists apparently。Poly size。

Adversary and there exists are non negligible。For every London。The probability。The adverary with F。

Outputs 1 minus the probability。The with random。Outputs one。Is at least。Ale。Yeah。

 suppose for contradiction that there is someone who can distinguish when he's given PRF。

 the output of say  one with high probability。 So one is for him。 A PRF and 0 is random。

 and he can actually succeed when you give him a PR if outputs  one and give him random， he output 0。

Okay， with some。 So this again， is over the key。And this is over up。Completely random fact。O。Now。

 what I want to do， I'm gonna say， well。W， we can succeed。He should also succeed。If I replace these。

By truly random。Okay， so I'm going to write this a little more formally， but for now in。Suppose now。

Re these very truly random。Thatver should also sleep with non probability。Why。😮，Because。Now。

 all of a sudden， he can' distinguish。Then I want to say， I， I can break the PR G。

How do I break the PR G？ So I want to say， I can distinguish between。Random K0 and K1。And K Z and K1。

 that came from a PR G。哈。Well， I'm going to run the adversary。 So suppose。A2。Yeah so if now all the。

 so suppose before， when you gave him PR of like when you give， when you gave an Or to PR。

 let's say output usually output1。Now， when you change the PRF and get in here。

 truly random also output put0。There。You can break the PR G。How， given this。Any。

 any ideas how we will break the PR G。So I'm giving。

 I'm in a dressary that's supposed to break the PR G。I get K0 and K 1。

 They're either pseudo random or random。 I need to guess。 What am I going to do。呀。Exactly。

 I run my adversary。 How do I， I run the adver and see what he says。If a PR， he says usually one。

 And when these are random， he says random， he says 0。If you tells me  one。

 I say these are so random because then it's distributed like the PRf。And if you says 0。

 I say the random。Now， the only thing to note。Given these， I can continue。

 I can easily simulate these calls。在爱。Yeah， because I just have these。 So if you ask me X。

 I don't know some X。If its， if it's first bit of 0。

 I go here and then I generate the rest on my own。 And if the。

I go here and generate the rest of the bits on my own。So the， the important thing to notice。

 if I give you the keys of layer 1。Or the keys of layer 2， or the keys of layer 3 and so on。

 If I give you here are the keys， here the。And you can simulate the PRf。OK。

So now the idea is what I want to do is I want to do some kind of hybrid argument。O。

 what I want to say is the following。So， let me denote。Actually， let me。

 I just wantanna make sure I'm consistent。With my notation。嗯。系。嗯。0 is K。 Okay， so let me denote。

By F I。A new function。 Okay， it's a function that up that layer I。It's truly random。And from then。

 I'm like with the P G。Okay， so this is a function。 This is。F I is the function。Associated。

With like two to the eye random keys。KI。诶。I guess。K the， let me think K alpha for every alpha in 0。

1 to the I。And now the way， so I know it's inefficient。 Okay。

 this FBI is not efficient just for the analysis。Basically， it's the function that in layer on。

I have completely random keys。And then when I want to simulate the way I an input x， what do I do。

 I look at the first I bit of x。Where I'm here， Which of the two of the I keys。I need to check。

 So basically， if I'm given， so。OK， so呃。F I。An input x。You compute。Basically， the PRF。

Like the GGM PRF。啊，我。Which is K and alpha being。X1 up the X。So， you go to the。

Corresponding to the where the first I bit of alpha are what the first I bit of of x。 sorry， R。

 that's going be my alpha。And now， you basically come。Compute the G G tariff with this。An input。

XI plus one。Up to X N。Okay， so basically， at the layer I。

 I'm thinking myself completely random function。The first I bits of x will tell me kind of which where I am in the eye layer。

And from then， then I'm like a PR， I'm like the PR。 So I， I apply a PR G PR， G， PR G PR G。Okay。

 so basically what I'm trying。 Okay， so basically。0ero。So， you know， we start with this。

You start with random。 And now everything， everything， everything is sort random。Use K is random。

 but K0 and K1， the pair。It's not random。 It's sooner random。Right here。

 like the amount of randoms you have in layer  two is only lambda bits。

 The amount of randomness altogether is only lambda bits。What happens if I'm truly， truly random。

 if I'm truly， truly random。You can think of like the bottom is has like philanthtroy。

 because it's truly random。Whereas here I only have1 bits of entropy。

So the adversary distinguishes between having oracle axis to all the leaves。 Yeah。

 because the basically， the input tells you which leaves you want to go to。He。

 he can distinguish it between having oracla to the leaves that are completely random。

And the leaves that come actually basically only have lambda bit oftro all coming from K。

And now what I wanted to do， I'm basically gonna try to do kind of a hybrid and say， you know。

Consider the eye layer being truly， truly random。So then the number of bits of entropy here is like。

To the I times lambda， not just lambda。So now here's the point。What is。What is x0？呀。Exactly。

 that's just。That is just F。The GGM construction。Ca I didn't I didn't do any。

 I didn't replace anything。Yeah， just compute the period with respect to the root K。

 like the original K because I is 0。 I is 0。What is FN。To die。不是在俩。O。No， no。

 it's not a dumb question。 You're like， okay， so I。This， O， so Im。The analysis， this function is。

 of course， efficient， yeah。In the analysis？I'm going to compare this function to。

Efficient functions。 Okay， so by， by the way， O， this， this function is very efficient。

 The truly random function。It's really inefficient in the truly random function。

You can also think of it of the tree， but。These are totally truly random。

That's the a random function。You can think of it as a tree。

That each X tells you kind of which leaf to go to Basically。

 a tree means I only care about the leaves。 I have two to the N leaves。

And each x is like a binary presentation of the leaf I'm interested in。And that's the output。Okay。

 so random function， basically here， everything is truly random。哎这就这样。It's computed via the Pgy。

So now， okay， so the， the random construction is truly inefficient。 Yeah。

 now I'm looking at kind of a hybrid in the middle， the hybrid in the middle， I'm saying， okay。

 in layer I also compute this tree。 I mean， think of a tree。The only question， last say tree。

 the only question， how are these leaves computed because the PRF or the random function， basically。

 the x is like an index to which leaf I'm going to leave。 It's。

' it's a binary representation of the leaf I'm interested in。So the only question is。

 how are these leaves computed。In the random， truly random。In the PRf。

By starting with a key and then applying a PRG。Now I'm。

 I'm going to look at a hybrid where in where these leaves are computed as follows。

In layer I for every eye， you can go from 0 to  n。In layer eye， the kids are truly random。

So I don't have just one random key。 I don't have two the any random key。

Like in the truly random construction， I have。可。And then when I want to compute。Leif。

 I asked to myself， okay， which。Utri as they correspond to among this in layer eye。

 I have two to the eye， random keys。Which key is the one correspondence to the X I'm interested in。

In the key， the relevant substrate depends on the first eye bit of the input。

So the first eyes of input are 0，0，0，0， it's kind the most platform。If the first I bits are 1，1，1，11。

The most right one。And now， once I know which key I'm in， now I'm again toistic， G G。

Like just based on PR Gs。O， so。And when I am zero old。I'm in the。When I'm when I is N。

 everything becomes random。 I'm in the random construction。And when， when I。I kind of。

Did that answer。Do you have a follow up question。Any， anyone has any questions。Now。

 I want to point out， I'm not saying like， so this F sub I。Hands。Like2。

My random keys associated with it。I not it how story。I'm not。It's just some it's about。X other orle。

 like， how am we storing in a random orle， how am we storing this。You start。I'm， I'm not efficient。

诶不海。Is this something？It's， it's a function that's not efficiently computable。It's a function。

FI think of it as a function。 Like， okay， let me first look at the random function。

 The random function is a function。It has two of the N random keys associated with it。And an input X。

 It gives you one of the cases out， one of the cases output。It's a function。But to store。

 to tell you what the function does， I need to store these two to them kids。It's not efficient。

 but this random function， I choose random  to to design random keys。

And I'm going to answer with respect to depending on the inputs you want。In F sub I， it's similar。

 I'm going to choose a random2 to the I keys。You can answer kind of with to these。

The F0 is efficient。F I is only efficient for very small eyes because I I can't store two of I keys unless I is small。

If I smaller than Lolanda。It's efficient。 if I， but once I becomes large， it's really not efficient。

But。😮，哎。Good， but what I can argue。That the probability。At any。Here。Uputs one。

Mine is the probability。That， a， un random。Outputs one。This is exactly， by definition。

 this is a of F0 because that's how I define F0。Is the probability？A of F， N。

Because this is how I define FN。Yeah， so I 0。 is's just like F。 I didn't replace anything。F N。

I made the anll completely random。 So it's a random function。So these are the same。Now。

 I can say this is equal to。This is equal to。Yes sir。Of the probability that a of F。Oh， okay。

 I did it differently。 Okay， it doesn't matter。I。1 lambda equals one。s the probability。That a of F。

I plus one。It equal one。This is everything cancels out。 So syntheticctic is exactly the same。

And note all this， this is greater or equal。To exon by my assumption， My assumption。

 you can distinguish non a probability between pseudo random and random。So this sum over I goes。

0 to n-1。啊。Sorry， guys。 I in the notes， I switch it， but let me just continue this。

 It doesn't matter。Okay， so this。So I'm so far equality， everything cancels out。呀。

But now this by the triangle inequality。😮，Is at most。Some。Of。The probability。

Equals1 minus the probability。But a。哎。I plus one。按万拉的。一個じ。Okay， so this is just triangle inequality。

And again， I goes。From 0 to n -1。So now what do I have， I have。K of。Elements。

 I have an absolute values。And the sun。The sum of these n kind of absolute values is big。

 It's at least epsilon。So I if I。So。Of an element。That the sum is big， big， being non negligible。

 Okay， so if the sum is big。It means that at least one of them。If the sum is epsilon。

 it means that there must be at least one of them of size epsilon over。So， this implies。

Let me go maybe。So I'm continuing here。 This implies that there exists I。Between 0 and n -1。That。为哎。

诶。Thank you FI。Probability oh， sorry。The probability。That a with F。I puts one。Minus the probability。

That a with F。I plus 1。Out puts one。So least epsilon。Over不 end。Or to save for。This implies。

That for every London。There exists。Great to be precise。 So for every lambda。

There is at least one every lambda。 I know it's big。 It's Epsilon Lambda。

Which means that for every lambda， one of them is big。So for every lambda there exists in I。

I think let me move this so you can all see it。So， for every London。You exists， I。Such that。

 And again， N is the N of London。So basically， what this means is this adversary can distinguish between the case that we replaced layer I。

By uniform。And the case will we replaced layer i plus1。With uniform。Because F I basically says。

I do everything。 I， like， I replace layer I by uniform。 And from then， and I do the G GM tree。

And F I I plus one tells me I'm going replace layer I plus one with uniform and then do the G GM tree。

And again， these probabilities are over random F。So the probabilitygo is over choosing two to the I。

 random keys here。And here it's over choosinging to the i plus 1 random keys。Now。

 what I want to do is I want to use this to break the PR G。Now， here is the problem。

 Here's the hardship。 The hardship is the followinglon。What I would like to say is I can say， well。

Give me layer I plus1。Either as a PR G of layer I。Or truly random。 And I'm going to distinguish。

But layer I plus one is really big。 It can be at length to the to the lander for all。 I know。

 I can be large。And， of course， if I'm running in time to do the Lada， I can actually break the PR G。

So， if， okay。If I is small。If I is small。 So let's consider suppose for a second， I is small。 I is。

 let's say， constant。Or up。 So if。I is at most loglandda。

Then I want to argue that if you can do this， if this adversary means。This implies。

That there exists in adversary B。I can construct a B。Search that。Tinglishes。Such that there exists。

So there exists a poly size。笔。And non negligible。I think it's going to be the same。

 but let me call it Delta。What to that。Distinguishes。Between given。G of random， a key1。After key。

2 to the eye。The probability。Minus the probability。诶。That be given G， given。Uniform。

Two to the I times lambda。 So everything uniform。哎，Osor。This is always true。 Okay， this implies。

 let me， actually， this is always true。This implies that there exists a polyit nurse B。

And this is actually epsilon Lambda over N exactly the same， such that for every lambda。

Might be distinguishes between getting。T to the eye through random。Like。

 like two to the I applications of G。And just truly random it。Why， why can he distinguish。

What will be， what will be do。Oh， basically。Run a。Okay， and。Okay， so let me tell you， O。

 let me tell you in a second why there exists such a B。

 But let me just say the fact that there exists such a B。A priori。

It's not clear that that's a contradiction。If I is small， I want to argue。That contradicts the PR G。

I up to to the polynomial in La。Then I argue that I will contradict the PR G。Okay， so。

Here's a claim that we will rely on that we will need actually。Put it here。

 So heres a lemma that we will need to finish up this two。3PRG。G。Every polynomial。啊。嗯。G up。K1。

Up to G of K L。This is our。If you look at this tuple。But kind of over lambdown。

It's computationally indistinguishable。From just uniform。啊嗯。L of lambda time up to L。他是突然改。

So each one， I think of a G that stretches like factors。Okay， this is true for every G。

 But since I'm a factor of2。 So take G。From 0，1 to the lambda。To 0，1， to the 2 on that。

 This is true for anything， but。Then。Pre G told me if you have one indication， it looks random。

But with from using a very simple hybrid argument， one can argue that if I have L invocations。

 it also looks random the L together。So we take one random key， another random key， another Al times。

 as long as El is polynomial。Then together， everything also looks random。So the length of this。

 each one is now too long of bits。So we have L times 2 lambda。So it looks completely uniform。

 but only if L is polynomial。If L is super polynomial， then it doesn't， because if L。

 let's say is2 to the n or2 to the lambda。Then now my adverary。

 the adversary run time is like the input link。 And if you give the adversary size input link to the Lalanda。

 he can run in time Pauline to the the Laa。😊，And in time， Paul to the London。

 he can always break the P G。So it's really false for large， for largeel。 It's true for polynomial。

So I'm going to write the proof。Let let me tell you， the proof is simple。 Okay。

 its the hybrid argument。And the proof Ba says。啊。There exists。And polyly signs。Adsary。

That distinguishes。With non negluutible。Excellent。😊，I want to construct。Poly size， adversary B。

That breaks the PR G。手臂。Pigs only。1 input。G of some K。

 and he needs to distinguish if it's indeed G of a random K or a uniform。

 So this B takes only two little the lambda2 lambda。Length， string。So how can he use a， A gets a lot。

He gets。All times too long。He only gets too long。How can you use this A。So the idea is。

 let me I'm gonna hand wave here because， again， this is not so interesting。

 but it's written in the notes so you can look at it。Let me find的。Maybe here I can hand waveade。

Let me hand with this quickly here。But the way I'm going to construct B， I'm going to use any。

 any idea how I'm going to prove this。It's a technique that you've seen before。呀。Exactly。

 we're going to use a hybrid argument， which is exactly what's written in this board。

 So's an usual hybrid argument。 and the hybrid argument， Basically what we're going to do。

 we're going to define exactly。In that board。Good hybrid eye。I。

The first I are going to come from a PR G。In the rest uniform。

 So hybrid I is a distribution where you take G。Hey one。A to G。And then， uniform， I。U to uniform out。

Hey， this is the distribution。So if you take it this way。H， L。I's just this。Everything is a G。

H0 is this。😮，And exactly as before， we can say that for every that for every lambmbda。You exists。

Such that。啊啊。诶。When given a random sample。From H。I。对。Such's that the probability。That a。

 when given a random sample from H， I just mean， you know。

 given a random sample from the distribution H， that's。

The proposed outputs one here minus the probability that a outputs 1 when he's given a sample from H H I-1。

It's big。Because between H L and H0 is big。There must be some H I and H -1 that it's also big。

 bigger than， I guess， epsilon over。2。Because I have all of them。By the way。And was super polynomial。

 This is now small。 This is negligible。So this， this is big。 This is not negligible。

Only because Alice is polynomial。O， so everything I say now， if this is negligible。

 I'm breaking the PR with negligible probability。 That's not interesting。

Ca I know I could break that PR G with negative probability。With small enough probability。

 I can guess the seed of the PR G。So。The name of the game to break the P J need to people， to。

Break it with non probability。 So I need L B polynomial。And now。Now， what what would be do。

 So basically， the difference between these。Are in the I location。Before the location threw all PRGs。

From the i plus1 location forward， they're all uniform。So the entire difference is in location I。

So now the way B will work， so B。Get as input some R， either PR G or not PR G。What he will do。

 he will kind of sample。R 1 up to R I -1。PRGs like this is going to be G of K1 as。Equal。G of K1。

Up to duty of K I -1。So the first K words are just going be PR G。

 So it basically is going to sample random K1 of the K -1 and apply G to them。

That's going to be the R。And also， Sam。R I plus1 up to our。Random。Each of links to lambda。So in。

 I guess，01。To the N minus I。住了。And then， output。A， what A would do and then R1 up to R -1。And then。

 his input are。In our i+1。After R and。After our， oh， sorry， sorry， this is al right。是。Okay。

 so whatever random。我 I不知。Okay， and then you output put this。Point is。Was a PR G。It's distributed。

 like here。It was random。just like this。So you broke the P。Work only with polynomial。

 That's important。Okay， so now what do we do here， We have。In where we're standing here。Sorry。OK啊。

Here we have not。 We have more than polynomial。So I I don't know how to use this to break the pie。So。

 here's the idea。The idea is， actually。We don't need。We don't really need to know all of La eyes。

So we're saying if I knew if all of layer I was sample like this or like that。

 either pseudoran or random， then if you give me layer I pseudo random or give me layer I random。

 I can distinguish。Actually don't need all of Leorey。Because。How are you trying to break the PR G。

 You're trying to use your adversary A。Now， this adversary a。

The number of queries he makes to his oracle is only polynomial。Poly size。Creature。Okay。

 so he may explore normally many queries。So。You can tell。 you can say， okay。

 I need to know all of Le I， but actually。He。Never needs olive of Lei。He really needs only cu。

Or I guess too cute， because when you ask each query， it gives me two， two options in layer I。

In these most poll at the end of the day， He will look only at polynomly many nodes in La eye。

That's kind of the the theha moment here in the analysis。Is that actually， you never need。

To compare all of La being sort random to all of La being random。You only need the part of layer eye。

It will ever look at。Now， which part of that， Which part is that， Will we look at the most left。

 most right， middle， Where， where is it going to look at。And the point is， I don't care。Actually。

 it doesn't matter where he's going to look at。And so， basically， here is the idea。

What I'm going to do is， I'm going to use。I'm going to actually use a polynomial。

 I'm going to argue that this A implies that there exists a polynomial B。

That distinguishes not the to the eye。不就是。Pnomally many。

 So I'm going to argue that this implies that there exists a A size B， adversary B。

 and a non globalable function。Such that。This be distinguishes between。Not to thin， but rather。

Elements。That are pseudo random。Versus。Q elements。That are random。What is Q？😮。

Q is abound at the number of oracle calls that Amy。So， suppose Q。It是 bound。Number of oracle calls。

So suppose this A， this adversary A。Make。Quries to its oracle。And after a Q queries。

 he's able to distinguish between the case that the eye layer is random versus the eye layer is pseudoam。

😊，Now， what I'm going to argue。I'm going to construct an address be。That you give the adversary only。

Q。Sts。They're all random， or they're all pseudoran。And hes going to distinguish it between these two。

It be a contradiction to mylema， because Q is now polynomial。O。How is this done， So， how will be。

 how will B work， So now B is given only Q strings。Either all all random or all pseudo random。

How will he know if they're random or pseudoan。So here's what how what he's going to do。

 He's going to start this。 He's going to try to emulate aid。Okay， so he's going to try or sorry。

 He's going to emulate the oracle。Q strings。But now he's。Basically， running in his belly。

Every time A asks a query to the oracle， he's going to answer the oracle with his。

And the way it's going to answer is going to be that we're going to argue that。

These are pseudoo random。It's gonna be consistent。 It's。

 the answers are gonna be distributed like this oracle。The FBI I， namely the eye round。

 is randomed for then on its， itss G Gn。And if he gets uniform。

We're going to argue that he simulates that i plus one oracle。

 namely round the layer I plus1 is random。 And from them from then it's G GM。And hence。

 we're going to argue that， you know， you can， basically， this is going to be。At run over。

So how does he simulate。This GGM Oracle， this FI Oracle or F plus1 oracle。送。He's going to run A。

 He's going to do exactly as A does。But he' is going to simulate the oracle。

So how is he going to assimilate the oracle。So， here's the basic idea。Let me see I have。Beautiful。

So here's the idea of simulating the oracle。So when he get his input， X to the Oracle。

What he does is the following is the following He looks at。啊。O， he looks at layer。啊。One second。

 I write plus one for that。He looks at。X。아啊。X1 up to X I。The first I bits of X。And he said。

He's going to set。I。0。And so either K 0， sorry， K。So， so he is going to set。I define these two keys。

And how is he going to define these， So this is， let's say for， for query J。 So remember。

 we said there's most Q queries。 So suppose this is for query J。Let be denoted by X。

I'm going look at the first I bits of x。I'm going to define these two keys。这别。By definition。

To be his。So okay， suppose B， So okay， B。I need to construct this bee。So suppose B is given。

 So let me tell you how B works when B is given。耳 one。After our。All of them are random。

 or all of them are pseudoran。De this is R J correspond to query J， unless they unless。

This was already defined。So originally， there's no key defined。 Nothing is defined。Where he comes。

It's X。 I'm going to look at the first I bit。And I'm going to say I'm going to define k of x one of the X I 0 and K x of X I 1。

As the Ja。string that I got from B that be received， which is either pseudo random or random。

 Remember， this is kind it's a， it's a two two lambda because it's an output of a PR G or random。

So this too lada。 This is too landa。 Okay， so this is either random。Or to。And now for the next one。

 And now I get another X。So if。First， I fit is the same。Then， basically， I already sampled。

That node in the eye layer。 It was was ready that keys were already defined。 So I'm done。

 I don't do anything。I， I answer。 So， O， so， so I need these kazs。If it's new。

 I define it what the respect the next are。And now the way I answer， the way I simulate the oracle。

Is。What的。This is how where I am in the GGM tree in layer eye。Oh， sorry， this is， I guess。

 in layer I plus one。No one I can， I can just simulate it using the GgM。从阿啊从。Given query J。

 I define these。Either in this way， if not defined already。

So this is assuming we didn't have already a query that shared the same I prefix。

And then the way I simulate the answer is， I think to myself， okay。

 he's in the G GM tree and the I plus one layer in， I guess he's in。T X1 of the X I and X I plus one。

 So either here or here， depending on the I plus first bit。I continue simulating like the GgM。

 I applied PR G。认为勾当这个。That's the opera thing。And then he gives me another query。

The new query has already an prefix。 X of X I was already given that I have the key。

 I just simulate the GGM tree。The query X did not share the prefix X on of theide。

Then I define this the pair。Next are that I didn't use yet。 So remember I had it。Q R R1 R 2。

B is given。You Rs。All of them are either random or of of them pseudo random。And all I need。

 basically， the point is that a diversityverary only needs to know Q elements。看一的。Pearairs in layer。

 I plus1。Because it depends for the Q queries。And I。

 so I will simulate all of them to be random or to be sort of random。

If I simulate them all to be random。I'm here。If I s it all to be pseudo randomum， I'm here。

And I simulate them to be random or pseudo random。If the arms are random， they're going to be。

 I don't know if it's on。But that's how I kind of find out。So that's basically the， the a。

 the proof of the of the GG construction。O。Questions before we break。O， this was， I think。

 like by far the most。Involved proof in class O far， also beautiful proof， in my opinion。 So。

 you know， feel free to， I encourage you to look at the notes and kind of make sure you。

 you understand it。 And okay， let's take like a2，3 minute break。 and then we'll go to authentication。

OK。So， okay， let's continue。O， so so far now shift。So far， in class。From day 1。

We talked about secrecy。Okay， our goal was to get secrecy。And， in communication。 And for that。

 we first defined PR G。 Well， we first show and showed an information throughout the construction using one time pad。

And then we saw， okay， then the key is， as long as the message。 there's only one message。

Kind of sucks。 Then we define this notion of a PR G。In short， if you have a pair key。

 you can encrypt longer bits than the longer messages than the actual key。

We constructed this PR G from one way permutation。 We actually saw construction with goarco prediiccate and so on。

 We saw construction how you can get this PR G from one way permutations。 And actually。

 it's known how to get from one way function， which is a minimal assumption something。Great。

Then we said， okay， but that's only one message， long， but one。

What if you want as many messages as theverary want to be secure， Even if theverary sees many。

 many messages。 How much。as he wants as long， you know， he's found it。 It's only bounded。

 But as not as many as he wishes。 Then how do we get it。And we said， okay。

 you can get it using a PRf。And then we can sort PR I from a PR G。Great， okay， now we get secrecy。

 The CP secure， even if the university sees as many， butly many messages as he wishes。

 He doesn't learn anything about the messages。 Everything is secure。😊，Great。But are we happy。

 Are we done。And here is the issue that we didn't discuss at all。Maybe everything is secret。

 That's fine。But maybe what the adversary can do， even though he doesn't see anything。He can。

 somehow。Tweak the message。So you can't see it。But maybe you can still tweak it in a way that now when I get a message。

From you， I completely don't or he can tweak in a way that's very addressd， for example。Suppose。

 you know， I， I'm in a battlefield and I'm wrote to you you're in a mother battlefield that I'm gonna attack and dawn。

Okay， and I'm going to encrypt this message。So I send it to you that Ruie doesn't know anything。

You can't see it。 CPA is secure。 So you're very happy。But what if the adversary。

Without being able to kind of。Understand what's in there。 He's able to just change。Don to dus。Now。

 you get the message。 I'm going to attack and du。That's no good。He can't see it， but。

We can still kind of malleiate， change it in a way that's very harmful for us。So， so far。

 we're not protected against that at all。And moreover， it's not just we're not protected。

 This is a real problem because think about all， O， all we're doing like our， our schemes。

Are basically one time pad， sophisticated one time pad， right？ The only question。

 how do we generate the pad， Do we generate a PR G， do we generate with the PRF。

 Well all our schemes are basically， you take the key。

 You generate a pad somehow and use this pad as one time pad。Not adversary。

By changing one bit of the padded kind the one time pad part。You can change 0 to  one。

Thatly problematic。He can choose whatever he bits he wants and kind of flip them。

 So he doesn't know what's there。But he knows that he can flip them。Like。

 you know that it was flipped。And that can be very dangerous。So now what were the next kind of theme。

 The next question we're going to talk about is authentication。And my goal， our goal is to protect。

 to make sure my goal。Is to make sure that if， you know， we agreed upon on a key， right。

 we have a shared key。Now， when you give me a message， when I get a message from you。Sure。

That indeed， you are the center of the message and that nobody tampered with this message。

So you send me some psychophert。And actually here， I can， you can even not think about it。

 It can even be a message in non encrypted。 Maybe we don't care about privacy。

 Maybe we do care about privacy。 This is orthogonal。 So you send me a message。

 If you're worried about privacy， you send it encrypted。 If you weren't worried about privacy。

 you said it not encrypted。 I don't care。 However， we chose to communicate， whether encrypted or not。

 Now， you send me something。And now， my goal is to make sure that whatever you sent me was not tampered with。

That's indeed， authentic， and sent by you。Okay， so this is completely orthogonal to encryption。O。

 whether I care about privacy or I don't care about privacy。

I want to make sure that whatever you send me is indeed sent by you。And nobody changed the message。

And what we'll see is actually， we already know how to do this。So any， okay。

 so suppose I have a message。 We share a key。 Okay， so you and I share a key。O， so first of all。

 before actually。What， okay， how will you do that， So let me just， oh， yeah。Okay。

 so what you're proposing， You're saying， take the message。And a pen to it。Encryption。Oh。

 encryption of PM message。That's what you're proposing。Okay， okay， good。 At least you， you。

 you're onto something。 it doesn't quite work， but it's， it's a good， very good attempt。

 But let me first compare。 look， in reality today， I mean， forget about digital and so on。You know。

 we sign things all the time to make sure it's from us。Right， and the way we do it is by basically。

 you know， this isn't the way I do。Like a ridiculous scribble。

 And it is pretty surprising that like kind of works。 I don't know。

 Like people still think that that's a good idea。Every time I sign， I'm like， makes me laugh。 Okay。

 but anyway， we definitely don't want to do this first because it's ridiculous。 But also。

 and that's why I think the temp is very good。😊，agOr how we kind of tag or sign the message。

Me message dependent。Because now we're digital。So I can append to it some tags，0，0，1，0，0，0。

It has to depends on the message because otherwise you'll take this whatever I generated and you'll add it to whatever other message you want。

So， this tag。他看的。Authenticate the message。Somehow be related to the message。

And in this kind of attempt。I'm going to think of this。 This is the tap。But I want to say。

 this is a good idea， but it doesn't quite work。Because if， for example。

We do a one time pad as an example， you can still change the first bit here and change the first bit here。

 and it will， it will still be consistent。Like， it will still be accepted。Because this indeed。

 will de today。So it's a good idea， but not quite。Actually before we do it。

 let me tell you what I want。 Okay， so let me first define it。 So here's the definition。

 and we'll call it a message。Authentication， authentic authenticating code。 So a message。

Authentation。Cold。没。Is efficiently is。Holy time or efficient。Computable。functionction。The function。

 we often call it Mac。This isn't put a key。And the message。And output puts a tab， I don't know。

 I'm going to write it。Some string attack。And what you want。发出了。What you want。Is any adversary。

 So I'm an adversary said to that。Polyized bursary。There exists an eligibleible function。

So we can succeed only with tangibleible function。After that。Every lamb。Now， the is gold。

Is to kind of generate a tag。To a message that we did not send to each other。O。

 his goal to generate the tact to a message。That I actually did not have。

wants to tag on behalf of me。So what what he wants is the。 So I want the probability。The adverary。上。

St。And a ballot tag。F done by Ta star。Such that。Tmstock is indeed。Over a key。Is indeed Mac。啊，K。

And M star。Neligable。So he should not。You know， choose on his own a message and tag it。In。

 in a good way， in a Mac， like， indeed， do the Mac。 The Mac is amissive function。Okay。

 so you and I share a key。When you send me a tab， I'm going to make sure that the Mac。With my key。

 the message is indeed。Howstar。And the address should not be able to do this， yes。So。

 it don't get any。Wait， great question。 saying wait。A doesn't get anything。Yeah。不叫て。好一条没有面。一系C g。

Fantastic， you guys are cryptographers。 congratulations。😊，I different， exactlyact so。Exactly right。

 I feel like I did my job。 I think I'm gonna leave now。 Okay， great， great， so。Look， we talk。😮，Tags。

Right。The eavesdroper is an eavesdropper。 Okay， he sees。 Okay， I send you M 1。 He sees tag 1。

 I send you M2。 He sees tag 2。 So he does see sometimes。Of which messages， whatever I sent you。Okay。

 how do I model it？ So theverary sees polynomially many tagged messages。How do I a messages， What。

 how random messages is not quite。Message。So I'm going to think thatverary gets actually orlela。

Be my guest。 Cho them whatever message you want。Tacket。You can give him M1。 You get tag 1， M 2。

 Mac of M2， M3， Mac of M3。And at the end， you should search that。And。Is not one of the Ms。

That was oracled。Okay， so it's not am I that we。嗯。Oracle calls。So as long。

 I want to say the adversary can get tags for any message of his choice。

And he should not be able to come up with any new message。Of course， he can generate the。

 He can output a message in a tank that he saw from the oracle， of course。But he should not be able。

P and you。Except with angel property。Question。我睇啊 like。艾你。So， O， good。 So actually。

 there's various types of definitions。This is kind of the strongest that said thatverary can choose any can ask for tabs of any messages。

 adaptively chosen message tab。And he wins。You can find a pack of Annie。

Message that he did not see before。There are other variants which are like， he has random access。

 and he succeeds if he gets。For random message， if， if he manages to tag a random message。

 theres been a lot of in the notes， I wrote some variants。 there been a lot。

 But this is kind of the common one， yeah。Exactly， not okay， again。 So okay， how。Okay。

 so now the question， how do we construct it。What's a good Mac。You almost said it right。

 Can you repeat again what。来色。You probably want to take a pseudo random。Even simpler， even simpler。

What's a good map。It's I。 one line。O， maybe I。And like a peer G， if you use a PR G。

 then a P G and what the key can be K， the key。How would you depend like。Exactly， just use a PRF。

 That's it。 It's just a PRF。 As long as the output of the PR is long。 Like， if the output is 1 B。

 you can guess a bit。 But take a PR with lambda bit output。Just a pair of。

You get many values of the PRF。 You cannot forget another value of the PR。他是不出来的。And next week。

 we're gonna to prove why PRF is a good Mac。 Okay， but it's good for you to kind of think about it。

 It's， it's pretty。 it's， it's an easy proof。Okay， great。 Thank you guys。 See you on Monday。

