# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p10 6.5620 Lecture on 10⧸1⧸2025 (Wed).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p10-

Hi everyone， yeah I list do a lot of pounds。have to sort for new lecture today。

The topic of today's lecture is going to be our first introduction to public key cryptography。😊，嗯。

Comptely， we'll be looking at。He to， if you guys haven't seen， we updated one of the parts。

Distinguishing。最きた。Instead of like excellent or two。ま？Yeah。Okay so。

Today's topic is going to be the introduction to public key cryptography Conly we'll be looking at the public key equivalent of Macs。

 which we've been working on for the past few lectures。😊，And these are called signatures。

So the past few lectures we've been studying the setting where there's Ali and Bob on some network and they want to communicate。

 and there's this adversary Eve who's also on the network and can eavessdrop on whatever Alice and Bob are sending to each other and can also try to pretend to be Ali and Bob to the other person。

😊，Right， so in these settings， we saw how we could achieve secrecy that is Alice could not eavesstrrop on what Aliison sorry Eve could not eavesrop on what Ali and Bob were saying and integrity。

Which is prevents Eve from pretending to be Alice by sending messages to Bob。Right。

But one major issue with everything we've seen so far is that they all had this assumption that Alice and Bob had this shared secret key。

哎。But the question is， where does this shared circuit come from？嗯。

They can't send it over the network because then Eve would also know the secret key。

So it has to be that they have to have like met in person at some point， shared a secret key。

 like tossed some random coins， decided on some key and then went back to where they're based。

Or maybe they sent a secret key to each other over male， totally impractical in today's world。

And indeed， our world and our internet would look very different if this is all the cryptography we could do。

😊，And if you think about it， like。You can almost convince yourself。

 at least I can even now that a shared secret piece seems almost necessary， right？You know。

 some kind of argument could go like if Alice and Bob are communicating and Eve can see everything that they're saying。

Then it must be that Alice and Bob knows some information that Eve doesn't have。Or。

If Alice is sending messages on this network and only Bob is able to decrypt。

And how are we distinguishing between Bob and Eve unless Alice and Bob shared some information？

But he doesn't know。But it turns out this intuition is completely false。And this was。

And this was pointed out by Diiffy and Heman。In their landmark paper。In 1976。🤧。

That proposed and constructed cryptography。Without shared secret keys。

And this is what is called home key cryptography。There's a totally landmark paper。

 They want to to an reward for it。 And like a side note， this is already a really cool paper。

 but while they were at it， they also introduced this notion of program obfuscation。

 which is still an active area of research and photographyography。😊，It's a really cool paper。😊。

It turns out they were actually not the first people to come up with public e cryptography。

 the GCHQ actually had developed a lot of these ideas a few years earlier， like 1970， 1973 and so on。

😊，But it remained classified all the way until like 1997 or something。Anyway， side note to side。

 how do we so what did they do， what was the key idea and how did they get around these seemingly impossibility results？

嗯。I mean， there's no impossibility。How do they get around this strange intuition that we need to share？

嗯。Their core idea。Was asymmetry。So you'll notice that if you look carefully in these settings of secrecy and integrity。

 Alice and Bob actually play different roles。So。You know。In one setting， in the setting of secrecy。

 like one person is performing an encryption。And the other person is decrypted。

And in the case of authentication or integrity， one person is like。

Applying a Mac or like authenticating something， and the other person is verifying。Yeah。Crucially。

It doesn't matter that。Well。Whatever Bob can do， like encrypting and verifying。

Like we actually don't care if someone else can also do it in particular， eat。

Like it doesn't matter if Eve is also able to encrypt messages that I wasn't able to encrypt。

It doesn't matter that Eve is also able to verify。嗯 mask。That Alice this generates。

It's on the right hand side。We have these tasks that anyone。Can do。But on the left hand side。

We really want only Alice to be able to decrypt。These secret messages， right？Only Alice。

Should be able to。妈。So the way Dffy Heman exploited this asymmetry is that。

The idea was to take the this。This key from。The secret key encryption and authentication world and split it into two parts。

Like a secret key and a public key。And the problem key。Go to Bob。And in particular。

 it's public so anyone can access this key， but the secret key crucially remains a secret without。

Okay， so this is a promising idea， how do we formalize it？And just Sctographers。

The first thing we do。Drite down a definition。 So let's look at how to formalize this idea of like splitting the key into two in the setting of。

Which are like the public equivalent of math。Okay。So what is a signature？It's very similar to a map。

 so there is a message space。And there are three algorithms。Jen。We'll call the sign。

 Let's say if not。Very sorry。The syntax is that Jen is going to take as input some security parameter。

And Ill put a pair of pes。A public key and a secret key。And in this particular setting。

 we'll call the public keyo verification key。Just because it's not description。嗯。

Asigning algorithm is going to take in。The secret signing key。And a message。

And output'll put a signature。And the verification algorithm is going to take in this verification key。

The message and the signature and output either zero or one。And they're accepting rejected。

So very similar to what we have from Max。And。You know， basic。

Basic correctness properties that we want。2。If someone with the signing key signs a message。

 then if you verify that using the correct verification key， it should end up always。😊，So。

The probability。And if we verify。And on his signature。It should always accept。Okay。

 so that's the basic syntax in。What about security？Security is very similar to what we had from Max。

 we want no adversary to win the following security game。So theres， there's the adversary。

There's a challenger。The challenger is going to not sample。Now these two keys， we can ask。

And send to the aversary weekend。Now the adversary is going to query the signing functionality or before it was the Macing functionality。

And can do this polynomialally many times。And at the end。It sends back a potential forgery。Okay。

And the adversary wins。Yeah。If。This is a successful forgery。Verify。Excel。

And it's a new message that the adversary has not seen before。So and a star。This is not in。

So everything on this board looks very similar to what we saw for a max。There's just one difference。

Difference is instead of。The key generation algorithm I putting a single key， there are two keys。啊。

A secret key and a public verification key。The signing functionality takes in only the secret key and the verification functionality takes in only the verification。

And。The way that the security definition captures the fact that verification。

 the VKS public is by giving VK Google。Okay。And so now you'll see there is actually no need for Aliison Bob to meet。

In person。Why is that， Because， you know， if Alice was supposed to sign a message。

 what Alice could do is sample her own。Verification and。No yeah， verification and signing key。

And then publish the verification key。To everyone。And now she signs a message using her Se key that only she knows。

 and anyone including Bob and also Eve， can verify。Okay。

 so this seems like a really useful primitive if it exists。😊，And actually。

 these things do exist if one new functions exist。We won't see the full construction of signatures from one functions today。

 but we'll start building up to it。嗯。Part， we'll see something weaker， we'll see the steam by。老婆儿。

Who give it。One time。Signature scheme。From one way function。Why is this。It said。

The signing functionality could be randomized。But like when you say the probability this one。

 you actually mean。嗯。Makeig one， but there are。Intances where you might on。Yeah。啊，在这。For here。Exact。

 yeah。Yeah， for simplicity， we'll think of it as always accepting。

We would be happy if it was one minus ne。Okay。So let's look at the one time signature scheme of Laport from one functions。

 I'll write down the key generation algorithm， and then。Ask you to come up with like the signing。

Signing algorithm。Because it's really。It's a really nice example of。

Like this public key asymmetry idea。So。It。The secret key is going to be like a grid， Oh。

 let's say we have a one way function。First。we have a one way function。Our message space。

Andfi strings。嗯。Sokija。I's going to sample。A grid of2， and。Strings。X， I， B， I。Each of length Lada。

And。1。And the verification key。Is just going to be。The outputs of F on all of you。So。Y，1，0， y，1，1。

And0， y and one。Y is equal to F of x。Okay， so do you have any ideas for what the signing algorithm could be？

See， recall that sign。Takes in the secret key。And a message， which is ended law。Mmhm。😊，关于。

reYou very addition。你这个是这个。所位。Be here public。你系。Yeah。Yeah， amazing， yeah， exactly。Yeah。

 so the signature。Is going to be。X I， X1， M1。X2M2。Allal the way to X and MN。

Where I'm basically picking。I'm picking the corresponding。Like string in this grid。

 depending so if M1 was0， I'd pick x10， otherwise I'd pick x11。And so on for each bit of that。

And why is this a good idea？Because。To verify， I get the Y IBs。Here。嗯。姓吗。Like your sigma is。You know。

 I parce it as a string of n。Traings。I simply check。That。啊嗯。X。I prime is equal to。Yhy I。

And verification is okay， so intuitively。😊，You know。

 verification is easy because I just need to compute the one we function in the forward direction。

But producing a signature is going to be hard。Because that involves em boarding this one。Right。Okay。

 so hopefully it should be clear that if everyone does what they're supposed to do。

 verification is going to。Is going to accept all valid signatures， so correctness holds。

But what about security？And I mentioned。But we don't quite get a signature scheme。

 We get a one time signature scheme。 What I mean by that is。In the security game。

I'm not going to allow the adversary to play this game like polynomially many times。

Allow it only to create one message。Right， so。咁見来た。Okay， so let's try to prove security。

 does anyone have any ideas？The intuition is basically that， you know。

 it should be hard to produce the inverses of these。One we function of。

But how would we formalize this？嗯哼。You end up arguing that if they generated a signature for some message that differs from the message being actually sended at some position。

 then at that position you basically need to find the pre imageage under their F of like some YI。

 which you know is hard。That's exactly。The idea and。To formalize this inter security proof。

 we kind of have to give an adversary for the one we function game。Right。Okay。

 the Y IBs are defined as F of X IB。Oh， no， the X IVs are lambda。N are the inputs to the。关滤发生。

And is your？Exactly， that's the number of bits you're assigning。快点。Yeah。

 your message space is zero1 to the end sorry。So。We're only signing messages of that。ま the side。

Exactly right， so yeah， this has multiple problems， this game， one is， it's only one time secure。

 but also you're only allowed to sign messages like them。Okay， good。但是。Yeah。

 because because for each bit of the message， I'm picking like a lambda and。

That's the length of the signature。 Yes， this thing has length on it。下。Yeah。吓。ok。Okay。

 so let's try to argue why the scheme is one time secure。We'll do this by contradiction。天未系。So。

Pretty。It'll be only at both show like one fantasy。Okay。嗯。

So we want to argue that if we're able to break the signature scheme。

 then we're able to break the one way function。So， okay， so let's see。Asum for contradiction。

 there exists some adversary。That breaks。The landlor it's interesting。Then we will give an inary B。

We will give。嗯。That breaks the one we function up。Concretely。

 what does it mean that there is an adversary that breaks the signature scheme means that there is a polynomial size。

Holy size。A such that。And non neible。Function， Epsilon。Such that the probability。That。

It wins this like。Yeah。啊。What's the best way to？Yeah。I don't know， like one query。1。Yeah。Okay。

 so what this sentence is saying is just that。The aary is breaking this onetime security game。

 and the way it's doing that is by producing a forgery M star signal star that verifies。

 and Mstar is not the query that it made to the signing oracle。😊，Not。Sorry， M is。TheQu。Not Amy。Okay。

So now we want to give a。An adversary B that breaks the one way function。So this is like。

 let's say this is the challengeenr for the one way function game。We're to need other。Yeah， okay， so。

This is slightly annoying。Yeah， because okay， so if your adversaries are all poly Lada size。

 then the only thing they can sign is。Like N bit long message where N is poly Lada。

So I think because of that technicality， this is technically secure for like all。Message。Yeah，系。嗯。

Any more questions？Okay， so the wonder function Challenger is going to sample thermoronm X。

Compute why。Equs alpha of be。And send Y to B。And what B needs to do is somehow make use of a to break this one way function。

 Does anyone have any ideas for how to do that？Recall that is going to a receives this verification key。

 which in particular has 2N。😊，Outputs， not just one。Yeah。This is something。

So I'm going at to going to differ。Are about the same they different。be。Or why high comment。问讲。Right。

And because kind。Exactly， great so you want。Exactly。

 so you don't know which bit the adversary is going to return that's not equal to the message it queried。

But you can guess。 And since N is like。嗯。Yeah。Since n is like ho lambmbda then。

Like you can guess with like good probability。What B is going to do is going to sample I star V star。

Fanddomly。And then， it's going to。嗯。Produce the signing key and verification key。So at Istar B star。

It's going to plant this challenge why。But the rest of it， it's just going to simulate on its own。

 So it's going to sample。Frandom x10， x11， and so on。

It's just one sample one in the place of I StarB star。And then it computes。The Y。

 IB is as F of X I Bs。一。う。And it sends us to the adversary。I realize I'm out of board space so。嗯。

Well it's in this census to the adversity。I'm going to continue here。

The adversary is going to return some message M。Right。And now we want to produce a signature signal。

If M star was actually equal to B star， then we don't have the pre image。

 So we're just going to fail。 and know， there's nothing we can do about it。So。

If a star is equal to the star。You know， just sp。But otherwise。In order to turn。Return the k City。

And then you wait for the adversary' response。And hope that it's correctly ined。啊。

IHope that it differs at this location and that it correctly inroided it。

 so you're going to upload sigma。😊，I。Singma star。I start。Okay， so let's analyze the probability that。

B inver the one way function。This is very not at can。So probability that。Fphone。

Sing one star I star B star。Is equal to y？My claim is actually at least。1 over two n times epsilon。

And since Epsilon is non negligible by assumption。嗯。This is also non negligible。🤧。Okay。

 so why is this the case？Well， let's actually look at when。So this is the clean。

Let's actually look at when this condition holds。It's going to hold when。You know， first， we。

Should not fail at this stuff。We definitely want MI star to not equal B star。

Because otherwise we're not able to return Sigma and then it has no guarantees。Right， but also。

 we want the M star to differ from。嗯。嗯。At the I Star location。So we want。 I star。就一个意思。Right。And。

I claim that this happens with probability at least1 over2 n。Do people see why that is the case？

Intuitively， it's because you know。From the adversary is point of view。

 like everything in gets the verification key and the sigma。

It's all like it doesn't matter what I Star and BSt are， like I'm going to get the same distribution。

So intuitively， that's why you， you know。It's almost as if I Star and B Star were picked uniform the a randomum after the f。

But a slightly more careful way to see this is that。Here。

The probability that Mi star is equal to B star。Is going to be exactly one half。

This is because the adversary is no way of telling where there's a hole。Right。

This probability is one house。And then even conditioned on this。

Istar is still going to be independent of the verification fee。And。The BiB star。So， that's why。

This has probability1 over n。Like it could be anyone one of the indices with equal probability。嗯。

And then。Then， we want to。Then we want the adversary A to actually invert the function， so。

The probability that。嗯。FO M star。I star。Saign no star， I star。Yeah。Is equal to Y I star e star。

Is at least epsilon。And since these two things are independent by similar arguments。

 this claim holds。So， we've seen that。The signature scheme where。We just used a oneway function。

To sign end messages。This scheme is one time secure， assuming oneway functions exist。Okay。

 but as just pointed out earlier， there are several issues with this scheme。

 one is that obviously it's only one time secure。So you have to。

Pick a fresh key each time you're trying to sign a message。And the other is that。嗯。

Once you pick the key， there's only like。B length of messages that you can sign。

So we're actually going to try to solve the second problem first。

 and that will lead us to a solution to the first problem in the next lecture。Okay。

 maybe we will take like a five minute break right now。And then come back。Okay。Okay。

So first we're going to pause the verification key。And then， we're going to do the。Obvious thing。

 which is to check that。哦。We're going to crash and then verify。Terrify。Okay。嗯。Hush。嗯。Then。

So there is a pretty natural idea。How do we argue security。Hopefully。Absaries。

ash message that they supply is one of the previous one。And then one hasn' appeared then。

likely break the collision assistance。And if it hasn't appeared， you will likely make me。但明假嘅有。

That不せ。Yeah。Yes， that's the idea。So。Okay， let's try to write this down correctly。Yeah。

our original signature scheme。Without the primes。Is。One time。Or you know。

 if we had a many times year scheme to start with。嗯。Then。Then the new signature scheme。啊。Q。4。

Ended messageses。F。For trail。And in the proof， we're going to consider two cases。Actually。

I think I might have written this wrong。In， in the。In the proof， we're going to consider two cases。

 one where。You're actually breaking the collision resistance of the hash function and the other where you're not。

 which means you must be breaking the。So。Signature scheme without the primes。啊。Okay， so。Case one。嗯。

Maybe actually let me dive this up warmly？So，Yeah。他们这个好不车。Theres only。Okay good。 Yeah， so a priori。

 it's not clear that such a thing should exist， but if you had a hash function that took in only polynomly like a fixed。

Length input， then you could compose it in the right way。This is what is called domain extension。

 but you could compose it in the right way and get a hash function that takes an arbitrary like it looks。

Yeah。Okay， so assume's assume for the sake of contradiction that。You know， gen prime。

 s prime ver prime is insecure， so there is a polyide adversary。嗯。啊你哪里回直播？Excellent， such that。

The probability that an breaks this scheme is non negligible is thatpsilon。A。And。

UmSt was not in your qua。And this is at least our month。Then we're going to consider two cases。C one。

嗯。The hash of M star is actually going to be in the hash of this query。Okay， so case one。嗯。

Propability that。How should I start？えぜ。Except。on。In this case。Yeah。What happens in this case？嗯。

should。但是。Exactly， so this means we've actually found a collision in the hash function H because Mstar is not supposed to be in our query set and we've still managed to know find mix。

😊，This is bad， so we break。Pmissionition resistance。一。In case too。This probability？

Is actually negligible。And then we can use this adversary to actually break the signature scheme。啊。

How do we do this？啊。So there's the challenger for。Our original scheme。

And we have an advisordversary that breaks this new scheme。嗯。So。

This challenger is going to send us a clarification key。But we canて。Sample a new verification key。

 which is。This。The verification key the challengeenger gives us。

 but also a collision resistant hash function。😊，And then we send this along to。

The adversary that break。This news。You name。And now， when the。Adversary queries， messages， right？

So I。We want to be able to return a sigma I。But。Yeah， so how do we do this？First， compute。

The hash of this message。Ask her original challenger design。The hashed message。

And then forward whatever signature we get to a。And now we wait for。It finally。I put a forgery。

And because we are in this case where you know， H of M is not going to be in。In the H of MIs。

We know that。We know that。I'm star hatt。Is going to be different from the MI hats。诶呃。yeah。啊呃。Yeah。

 and so we've broken the original signature scheme。Okay， so to summarize。

 we use this hash and sign technique along with using this like collision resistant hash function as a tool to go from signature schemes that sign messages of some fixed length to messages of arbitrary length。

😊，嗯。Right， and。This where we're going to see actually allows us to solve the more glaring problem。

 which is that the signature scheme that we had from one way functions is only one time secure。😊。

But that's for next lecture。One final thing that I'll say is that。You know。

 it's really cool that we were able to build signatures from just one way functions。😊。

And yet signatures are like very， very clearly public keep primitive。😊。

And as we'll see for the rest of the course， like the other public key cryptography primitives that we that we're going to run in do not have this property。

 We need much more， much more heavy machinery， much。

 much more structured assumptions than just like one- way functions。To build them。Okay， yeah。

 so if there are no questions， that's all for today。

