# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p21 6.5620 Lecture on 11⧸17⧸2025 (Mon).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p21-

Okay， so。So we're going to continue with zero knowledge today。

 and let me first recap where we were last time。😊，So we defined the notion of zero knowledge。

 basically these are proofs that reveal no information about why the statement is correct。

And we showed the construction。😊，How to get your knowledge for a specific MP complete language。

 The N complete language you talked about is graph 3 colorable。 So we have a graph G。😊。

And we want to prove that we can color the edges with three colors so that no adjacent vertices sorry three colors so that no adjacent to adjacent vertices are colored with the same color and we gave a xology protocol and the xold protocol was very simple。

 basically suppose the prover has coloring C1 up to C。 suppose each color is1，2 or three。

And what we do， we permute the colors， so we prove chooseor random permutation。

And permutees the color。 So each now， before it was color 1， it's a random color between1，2，3。And。

 and he puts the colors in safes。 Okay， so color one， safe one。

 and so on the permed colors in N different safes。 So this was a physical。Pro。

 then the verifier choose a random edge， and the prover opens only the safes corresponding to the nodes and that edges and that edge。

 So nodes the safe I and save J。 And it accepts if they're valid colors， namely the color。

 there is 1，2，3， and they're different。Okay。And and the the reason why we show why zero knowledge is because really。

 what the verifier sees is just two random colors。 It really gets information。 Okay。

 when you open it， you just see two random colors， Okay， you could have simulated that。

And the way you simulate that is actually you choose to random save。

 You put two random colors in there。You hope。That the edge that was asked is the I J that you chose。

 If yes， you open， if not， you try again。 Okay， so you can really simulate this。Okay。

 so this is just a recap of what we talked about last last time we we mentioned that the soundness is very high here。

 So it's you can cheat with pretty high probability。 but if you repeat it sequentially many。

 many times， eventually I'll catch you if you are cheating。 So you can cheat with probability。

 like1 minus one over a number of edges。 So it's pretty close to one。

 But if you repeat it like number of edges time security parameter。In sequentially。

 then I'm going to catch you with overwhelming probability。 Okay， and as we mentioned。

Zon knowledge is preserved under sequential repetition。 However。

 it's not preserved under parallel repetition。Okay， so you need to do it sequentially。Okay。

 what's the goal today， The goal today is first to actually give you a protocol because this is a physical protocol。

 so I want to replace these safes with an cryographic primitive。

And the cryptographic primitive we going used to implement the safe is what's called a commitment scheme。

So we're going to see a definition of a commitment scheme。 We're going to see constructions。😊。

And then finally， so this protocols， we mentioned， it has tons of rounds。😊，You know， many。

 many runss， because you need to repeat it sequentially many， many times。

We do have cancer around zero algebra protocols。 I didn't show you yet。

 But what I'm going to do today is actually go straight ahead and show you actually a completely non interact。

0 out protocol。So I'm going to define what that is， and I'm gonna。

 we're gonna see some constructions。Some， somewhat a little bit。Okay， so that's the plan。Any。

 any questions before I start。Any questions about about the zero Al protocol or anything like that。

No， okay， so let's start。 Okay， so how。I promised I said if we have physical safes that are opaque。

Then。You know， we have a zero knowledge proof。HowWhat's the digital analog。Aba thf。

And the digital analog is what's called a commitment scheme。

 So the way you should think about a commitment。I。When I want to commit to a value。

 I send you something。That hides the value。But I'm I'm stuck。 I have to open to that value。

 So I'm coming。 I have the binding I want。 I can't later change my mind。

But what I give you is like this commitment gives no information about the value。Okay。

 so that's kind of my safe is going to be when I want to send you。Some color。

 I'm going to send you like a string。After that， when I open， I have to open to that color。

 I can't later choose my mind。 So it's kind of binding exactly like a safe is， but it's also hiding。

 So when you see the string， you have no idea if it's color 1 color，2 or color or3。Yeah。にきとす。8月。Wait。

 so you'， you're proposing to send me if I want a color0， then I send 100。large number zeros Oh。

 encrypted。 Okay， so you can， O， O，1， O， so a natural candidate will will be forget about 100 encrypted。

But then the point is if I send them off， then I can'。提交你个。Okay， okay， so， okay， so the truth is。

If you had like a public key。There was a good public key， like honestly genes。

 if there was an honest person who generated a public key for you。Then。Instead of the boxes here。

 So that's a good great suggestion。 even before we define， it's a really good suggestion。

 How about the following。Put here an encryption。Up。Color 1 and put this here。

 and so on an encryption of color N。Okay， now the question is with which public key。Okay。

 when you tell me encrypt who chooses the public key。So。If we have。

 if the verifier is the one choosing the public key， he can decrypt， forget it。

If we have a safe person， if we have like a trusted person。

That give us a public He someone we all trust， then this actually works。Okay。

 so if we have like someone gave us a public key。Someone that trusted。

 I know the ver someonely chosen。 So let's say nobody have the secret key。 Let's say someone told me。

 here's a trusted person， a trusted entity。 They generate this public key。

 and they throw away the key， the secret key。 Nobody knows the secret key。

Now what I can do is I'm going to encrypt with this public key。And when I open。

 I give you how do I encrypt I choose some randomness？And I encrypt。And then to decrypt。

 I'm just going to give you the randomness。When I give you the randomness， you can read cry and C。

And now。I'm hiding because it's an encryption high。 that's semantic security。

And I'm binding because it's correct。Like， there's only one way to。 okay， if， if then skin satisfies。

Like perfect completeness than its binding。 So this should work。

If you have someone trusted who generate this public key for you， the thing is， if。

P generated the public key。 He can generate it in a malicious way。That he's not binding anymore。

 If he chooses the public， he can choose a mistress way that it's not hiding。So， that's the issue。

But。You can actually do it by kind of either you have a trusted party or somehow together。

 they generated via some secret chair。 There's ways to actually implementing this。

 So it's a great idea， but it's not as trivial as someone gives a public key And that's it。

But that's a very， very that's one way we construct actually commitment schemes。 iss via encryption。

But let me just say it's easier to construct women than encryption。It's much easier。

 And I'll show very simple constructions。Okay， so let me first define。So a commitment scheme。

Is associated with2 PPT consists。😊，Of。PPT algorithms。There's Gen that generates a public parameter。

And there's commit or come。Such that。So let's first the syntax。So。Jen。

Take his input security parameter and output some public parameters。

So it's a probabilistic algorithm， I'll put some public parameters。Commit。

Pixs input public parameters。An input， let's think of it as a bit because in architecture。

 is's going to be a bit， but you can encrypt， you can commit bit by bit by bit。 Okay。

 so it's kind of general。So it takes the bit that he wants to commit to and randomness。

And output'll puts， that's it。 And outputll put some string， some commit string。See。Okay。

 and you want the that's just the syntax。 And you want the following to So this is。

 this is just randomness。 So this is randomness。And this is the bit you wantanna commit to。

 This is the bit。You want to commit to the committed bit。Okay， so again。

 I'm assuming you commit bit by bit。So here's the two things you want to hold。

 The first property is what's called hiding。And the hiding property should be that for a random。

 okay， let me give you those two the standard property says that for random P。

 if you look at public parameters，And commit。Public parameters of 0。And when I mean this， I mean。

 it's a random variable。 So R is chosen， and this is computed。This。

Its computationally indistinguishable。From P P。And commitment。To one。So if you just get public。

 the public parameters and the commitment。It looks completely a secret。Okay， indistinguishable。

 It looks。 It looks in。 It's computationally indistinguishable。Okay。For our。For our setting。

 we will want something stronger。 We will want that for every P， P。Commitment。Okay， so we were one。

 like， not just。For random public parameter， or for any public parameter。Okay。

 we'll see because for us， it's the cheating verifier who will choose this public parameter。Okay。

 so we'll see。 But for now， you can think about this。And so this is hiding and binding。

The second is binding。So basically， hiding is is going to be。

 I'm going to commit to the bit and send it to you when you get the committed bit。

 you don't know if it's commitment to 01 because the two are distinguishable。

Binding says that I can only open in one way。 I can't change my mind and sometimes the site open to 0 and sometimes the site open to one。

Okay， so the binding condition says that。For every adversary， this is even all powerful。

 So this is going to be， I'm going to give you a construction that has。😊，Like statistical binding。

The hiding I gave you is computational。So these two are don't have the same distribution。

 They just look the same to polynoly bounded adversary。The binding。

Will be the following for any ad or even all powerful。The probability。Pt a。Given public parameters。

 on average over public parameters。The probability。That he can give me a commitment。

 The political can generate why。A commitmentment string， why？And to opening R 0 and R 1。Such that。

 Y is equal to commitment。Of public parameter， the big zero in r zero。😡，And。Why is the commitment。

Also to the bit one。With randomness， R one。This is negligible。So， basically。What。

 what the binding says。Maybe there's a few really bad public parameters。

But with overwhelming probability， over most public parameters。There is no way you cannot open。

 there's no commitment string why？😡，That can be open to both 0 and 1。So you cannot。

 This is going be an opening to 0， like the randomness used to commit to 0。

 And this is gonna to be the opening to one。 The randomness used to commit to one。Yeah。

 this is all powerful， exactly。Yeah， even he runs an exponential time， whatever。Okay。

 the point is it doesn't even exist for most， most public parameters there do not exist。

A string Y and two openings for both 0 and1， they will both be accepted。

And what I mean by accept you， you， you accept an opening if it。

 if it's the randomness corresponding， fine for the commitment。Okay， so that's the definition。Now。

 let me say you can ask， of course。Why is it that I chose computationally hiding in statistical binding。

I could have maybe done， you know， maybe computational。Bining。And。Statistical hiding。Why not。

And the answer is， well， I love that for you guys in the homework。 So you'll， you'll， you'll do that。

 But just to say both were considered in the literature。😊，And。Now。

 what does it So and if you can use either or and they will give you a different flavor of zero knowledge。

 So let me explain。use the computational hiding and statistical binding that I just wrote here。

Then what do you get here， then let's go back to the protocol then。First。

 the verifier will send public parameters。Then this guy will commit to all the colors so you can think of the colors。

 There's three colors。 So let's encode him with two bits and you'd give kind of two bits per color。

 So two commitments per color。 Okay， so you actually have like two end commitments。😊，O。

 and then one color is not valid。 So you can have the color 0，0，0，1，1，0。

 and one one is just not valid。Okay， so， okay， now what do you have。

 So if you're computationally hiding this hide。😊，At least if， if for every P， P is' hiding。

 because this guy's malicious， he can give you a really bad public parameter。

But if you have to guarantee that for every public parameter。You get hiding。Then you're happy。

 thenre okay， then now he doesn't everything is hidden and then you only open the relevant things。

 so you're good。😡，Okay， and again， the way you'll simulate it， you'll choose which to to open。

 the rest just commit to 0。 You're never going open them anyway。 So just do commitment to 0。

And the two edges that you actually chose the colors。Commit to these colors honestly and open。😡，Okay。

Good， and you actually get binding because no matter what the cheating prover is。

 even if he's all powerful。He can't cheat because once he's committed。

 that said there's only one way he can open。And we know he did not commit a valid coloring because a valid coloring doesn't exist。

So somewhere are in there， there's something not valid。

 And that's where we're going to catch you with probability1 over E。But we repeat it sequentially。

 So eventually we'll catch him。What happened if we change statistically go to statistical height computational binding？

😮，So if we do statistical hiding。😊，Then now we're like perfect or statistical zero knowledge。

 like we were with say with safes。😊，So now even the simulated proofs。😮，Where you commit？😮。

You really don't leak any information， even if you're all powerful。😡。

And you try to distinguish between an actual proof where you actually have colorings inside or a simulated proof where all the other colors are 0。

Statistic， if you have statistical hiding， it's statistically close。So you。

 even all powerful adversary can can distinguish only with ando probability。But。😮。

Now a cheating prover。😮，If you're only computationally binding。

Then you have to guarantee that binding holds only computationally。

So you have only computational sounds。Because now， if you're all powerful。

 you're not blinded anymore。You can actually open to whatever you want if you're all powerful。

So then you will get a notion of computational soundness as opposed to statistical soundness。

 which is what we're used to。But I just want to say computational soundness is a very useful notion of soundness。

 And we'll see when we go with succinc proofs， which is the next topic。😊。

We'll use computational sound all the time。So it's， it's a useful notion to keep in mind。

But this is just to say。Both of these kind of variants are useful。

 Both the computational hiding statistical mining and the other one， yeah。Great。

 that would be the best。 Why not have more statistical， yeah。It's not possible。Exactly， exactly。

 You can't have both。You have to pay with one of them because the thing is， if you're。

 if you're really hiding。Then there exists somewhere you can open into like， you can open to both。

 if you're not， weren't statistical。And then an all powerful guy can open to both。

So it requires kind of think about it a bit。 But you can the point is it's a great， great question。

 you can't be both statistical hiding and statistical binding。 You have to pay somewhere。

So now the question， do you want to pay by only being computational zero knowledge or pay by only being computational sound computationally sound。

So could you what。What do you mean both at the same time？我。Yeah， but you know what。 Okay， great。

 So the question is， why not do both to run the protocols twice。

 One with computational like computational hiding。 Another one is。Basically， both variants。

Then you're shooting yourself in the foot because now you're only computational zero knowledge and only。

 oh， sorry， okay， no， So if you run it twice， then you will be statistically sound because you'll accept if both are accepting。

 but you'll be computational zero knowledge because the second one is only computational。

And let me tell you something。😊，Statistical zero knowledge proofs。 So statistical zeroology。

 statistical sound， we have some protocols， but not for all P。

And we don't believe that statistical zero knowledge proofs， by proof， I mean statistical proofs。

 Otherwise， when we have computational sound， we call it an argument。Arguments is like。

 it's kind of a proof。 You're kind of convinced， but it's not like a proof。 Okay。

 so it's kind of a weaker version of a proof。 So that's computationally soundproof is what's called an argument。

We have statistical statistical urology arguments for MP。

But we do and that's basically it like just use the commitment that's statistically hiding。

 computationally binding， that would be a statistical zero knowledge argument for MP。

We do not have statistically sound proofs for MP。And we believe such do not exist。

We believe that class of all languages that have statistical zero proof， meaning statistical proofs。

Is sub is not all of N。It's actually a class called S D K for statisticalistic Ze knowledge。

 and we believe it's separated from all of M。Okay， great， great questions。Okay。

 any more question before I give you constructions。Okay， so let's construct。

So the constructions are actually really simple。So we have constructions actually from one way functions。

 which is the minimal assumption。 We don't have public encryption from one way functions。

 but we do have this。 And I'll show you the construction。 I can actually give you two construction。

 One construction doesn't even have public parameters。 Okay， you don't even need public parameters。

But that one is under injective one way functions。So let me first give you the one way functions variant。

 Okay， so here it is。So， construction  one， construction。From oneway functions。Actually。

 my construction is going be assumed soon you have a pseudo randomum generator。

Because we know that we can construct around generators from one we functions。

So you have only function。 First construct the pseudo random generator。

 and I'm gonna actually use a pseudo random generator to construct my commitment。Okay， so here it is。

The public gen。😮，So let's assume I have a PRG。That goes from 01。To the lambda。To01。是的。3栏。

Stretches by factor of 3。Okay。We can always stretch more and more and more if you remember。

 we can stretch as much polynomial as we want。Okay， so now here is what I'm going to do， the gen。😊。

Output just a random。😮，Strering of blank 3 Lambda。 So it takes security parameter。

 It just generates you randomly。And out with you。 And public parameters is just equal to you。Okay。

Now commit。Given the public parameters。Which is you。Given a Bi B。And randomness are。

What I'm going to do， R is going to be a length lambda。Okay， what I'm going to do。

If I'm going to output。The PRG。An R。If the bit is 0， I'm just going to output the pair GNR。

 That's it。If the bit is one。Exact。So， basically， B。Times you。

I'm going to exhort it with you if the bit is1 and if the bit is 0， I'm not gonna to exhort with you。

Okay。That's the construction。 That's it。Now， let's do， let's analyze it。Oh， surprise。Okay。

 let me analyze this construction。 So I need to prove。Hiding and binding。Let's start with hiding。

 I want to prove hiding for every public parameter so I can use it。Okay， so let's do hiding。

So I want to prove that for every public parameter， so for every U。I wanted to be the case。

 that commitment。Of public parameter，0 is indistinguishable from commitment of public parameter with one。

This is just a PR G， like a Sur， This is just G。 I guess I called it PR G，Of some random stringgar。

So， this distribution is pseudo randomum。This distribution。Is。PR G。A verend R X are with U。

But the point is， even if you're malicious and you choose you instead of choosing it randomly。

 I don't know。 You choose the bits of pi。 You chose it to be all 0。 You chose it to be all one。

 I don't care。You cant distinguish between PRG and PRG shifted。No matter what the shift is。

They both this looks uniform。 And for every you， this looks uniform。So， they're indinguishable。Okay。

 so these。and moreover， I mean， this is indistinguishable。This is indistinguishable。This isn't。

From uniform in this industry， from uniform。Uniform in。0，1 to the three lambda。Okay， done。Now。

 what about statistical binding， Let's see。 So what is the。

 I'm going to show you that the probability。Over a random mu。😮，The probability。That there exists。

That there exists any y， or let me say there exists。😡，Okay， why？And R 0 and R 1， such that。

Or you can even say there exists the probability that there exists in R0 and R1， such that。

Commitment。Of with you， the public parameters of 0 are 0。Is equal to the commitment。A view，1 in R 1。

The probability that such exists。Is negligible。 Okay。

 it's going to be something like1 over2 to the lambda。呀。Skip all of this for。Skip， you mean the。

 the this is binding。 You mean， skip the binding or skip the hiding。Okay。Well。You can I mean。

 the binding is easy， but one is to prove it。 Like why， why do you think it's like it's。

 it's easy anyway， but why。我。I think you get it for free， even if it's not injected， Basically。

 It's like a one line proof。 Let， let me give you the proof。

 So I want to argue that it's very unlikely that there exists R0 and R1 that that you can kind of form a collision。

 therefore， you can open in。You can get a why that you can open in two ways， why。Sorry。

 those two wise。 This happens only if so what is this。This is PRG。Of our 0。And this is PRG。Of R1。

 x or U。So this can happen if and only if。Let mell just write differently， there exists R0 and R1。

So to that。PR G of our 0 xor。PRG。Of our one is you。That's the only way it can happen。

So this is equal to this。😮，Okay， I just movedm from left to right。But。There's very few use。😮。

For which this holds because then even discounting， the number of Rs0 and R1。😡。

R 0 is in 01 to the lambda。R 1 ist0 ontoto the Lada。So the number of Rs U and R1 is it most？

2 to the2 lambda。And the number of views is 2 to the three Lada。So with these。

 you've got only two to the two of the possible strings at most。

Maybe less because maybe things kind of collide。 But at most of the two Lambda。

But you must chosen to random from two to the three lambda options。

So it's very unlikely that it will fall for one of these。Okay。

 so unless the verifier didn't shoot himself in the foot and gave you a bad public parameters that allows the prover to cheat。

Then he knows that even if the pu is all powerful， he cannot cheat。呀。Question about the。The proof。

Okay， so maybe I'll show you quickly， the other commitment which doesn't use any oh， yeah。

To have three lambda。 we cannot just Good， Okay， so that's a great question。

 The reason I needed3 Lada is actually for the binding， because the way I argued binding is I said。

 I want to say， look， because I want statistical binding。

So I want to say even if you're all powerful。😊，You cannot open。😮，To both。

 as you cannot generate a string that opens to both 0 and 1。O， what does it mean。

 you can't find and there's no r0 and r1 so that pi G of r0 is equal to pi G of r1 x or U。😡。

How do I I want to argue， so basically， I want to argue that there's。Like Q is never equal to this。

 But why is that， How do I know maybe maybe the U there exists actually R0 and R1。😡。

Maybe you can find R0 and R1 that the pair G of R0 x or per G of R1 is U。

 How do I know they don't exist。So the way I can do it is say， well。

 you as chosen has just much more entropy than these。😊，I think if you want。

 if you are okay with computational maybe you can do much better， you know。

 But this is just an easy argument of like accounting。Yeah。Great， great question。Okay， any。

 any other questions。Okay， you wantan to see a construction with no public parameters， kind of also。

I very quickly， it's a very cute and simple construction。😊。

These constructions assume injective one way functions。So again， no public parameters at all。

Here' is how I commit。 It's just a commit。So though I'm going to commit to a bit B。

And I'm going to use randomness。 Let me call the randomness。I want two parts， R And S。 Okay。

 that's I just want。 I'm gonna use two parts of the randomness。 I'll give it two letters。

And here's the commitment。And oh， so I actually is going be an injected one way function。

I'm going to output F and R。Okay， so I'm going to choose a random R。

 I'm going to give you the injective one way function on R。

And then I'm going to give you a hardcore predicate。😊，And then I'm getting a mask。

 the bit B using a hardcore predicate。So， if you remember。嗯。Even if I give you a random S。

The inner product of RNS， this is just like some RIS S Ima2。This is a hardcore predicate。

 So this looks random。I'm going to use this。😮，To mask my bit。That's it。 That's my commitment。Okay。

 so again。I'm going mask my bit。 I'm going， I want to hide my bit。

 I'm going to do it in a computational way。What I'm going do， I'm going to choose randomness R。

 I'm only going to give you a one way function， applied to this randomness。And then I'm gonna。

 I know that every oneway functions every every one way function has a hardcore predicate。

 In particular， I know that this randomized function is a hardcore predicate。😊，So even if you know S。

Our data looks uniform。So I'm going use this X or my， my bit。And now， hiding just。

The computational hiding comes from so hiding。😡，Just comes from the fact that F R S and R that S。

Is indistinguishable from F R。S and a uniform bit。And this was the Godda Levin Harco predicate。

So basically， the reason to show you is to remind you that you once learned about the beautiful Goddk Levinan Theorm。

Okay， so this we get from God that live。 And now once， once this looks uniform， you can use it to。

To mask。 So that's why you get hiding。Questions about hiding。Okay， what about binding？

Why can't you open to two different。Bit。呀。Exactly， exactly right。 because F is injected， so。

There's only one R you can open to。It's injective。So there's only one R。

If there's only one R that fits， so once you give this value， the bid is just R at S。😡，Like you。

 whatever it is， you， you， sorry， you unmask this bit with R。

 And That's the bit that you committed to。 You cannot That's it。So。Yeah。

 so no public parameters even。Okay。sorry。Yeah， so the randomness， Yeah。 So this is the randomness。

 These are the randomness for the commitment。And I use this randomness in two ways。

 Ha the randomness of the commitment。I use as a pre image staff。

And half of the randomness of the commitment I use for the hardcore predicate。

So I output'll put it in the clear。 Okay， no，'s it's kind of interesting。

Half of the randomness I just give you in the clear。 That's part of my commitment。

I guess's the thing I'm confused about is， this hiding stick is not。Theres some proof。Oh。

 to prove this。😮，Oh， of course， this is from Goddes Levin。Sorry， this。Is highly non trivial。

 but we proved it in class。 Yeah， exactly。 So this proving this。Is highly nontri。

 But if you go back to the notes， you'll remember that we did it。Once you believe this。

Then I claim the hiding files trivially， because basically。Because this is indistinguishable。

 So this is indistinguishable。 The commitment is like the same time I took this。

 And I exhort the bit here。 You can distinguish between the two。 And here， B is lost。

 So it's perfectly hiding。😊，Okay， so again， the commitment scheme actually looks like this。

 The bit B is x sort here。But because this is from this。😊。

Then it's indistinguishable from having X orbit bit here or x or bit here。And here。

 there is actually no binding， like it's gone， but the hiding is perfect。

So here the hiding is computational。Any， any other questions？About the。The commitment scheme。Okay。

 so should we move on。诶。2。Nssics， nontract of zero knowledge。Okay， so let me just tell you。

 you should be pretty surprised about this concept because as we started， we said。

You cannot have non interactive zero knowledge proofs。

 And that's why and how amazing how they changed the model to have interaction。

 And they made it possible。 And wow， this is so beautiful model。

 And because you can do it without interaction。 we overcame the barrier。 and da da。

 So I'm telling you about non interactive zero knowledge。 Like， really， that seems bizarre。😊。

But that non interactive part is defined in an interesting way。

 So it's not completely completely non interactivetract rather。

It's not in assuming some kind of public。String that was agreed upon。 that was generated honestly。

Okay， so let me define and explain。😊，So， none。And it's also called anniic。好き。O。So。And this extreme。

For some N language L。Consists。Up 3。PPT algorithms。Okay， the first。So as I said。

 it's not interactive， but we assume kind of that all the that。

The proven verifier have access to like this。Kind of ran some string that was generated honestly。

 Okay， and that's gonna be Jen。 Let me just make sure I wrote a Jen and not。How did I call it？Gen。

 okay， so the first is also Gen。And it takes its input。

Security parameter and an outputs what we call a common。Reference string。

It's also like public parameters， actually， but that's usually the name for it。CRS。Okay。

 so some parameters that everybody been to know。 It's called a command reference string。

Oftentimes this string is completely random， and then it's called a common random string。

It's kind of interesting that when you， when it's not random or when it is random。

 it's abbreviated in a similar way。And people， when they have a result thunder。

Common reference string， which is a little less good。 Random string is better。

 They kind of hide it because， you know， they just say CR S。

When people have a result under a common random swing， they always emphasize。

 but our series is random kind of。 So it's interesting that has the same abbreviation。But that's Jen。

And then the proven and verify。 So we have a prover algorithm。P。And it takes a CRS。

And it takes x and W， an instance and a witness。They are output to proof。So this is just the index。

And then there's a verifier。😊，So this is not interactive。 It just outputs a proof。

 but the proof depends on the C S。And then there's a verifier V who also takes the CRS。

He only gets X。 He doesn't have the witness。And he's given the proof pie。

And it outputs either 0 or one for accept or reject。And。Let me see if I need commitments later。嗯。No。

Okay， so what are the properties， So first we have the standard completeness and soundness property。

So， you know， you should be able to convince the ver， if you're honest。And if you're malicious。

 you should not be able to prove a false claim。 And then there's the zero knowledge。

 So let's write all of them。So completeness。Just says。That。He。I guess there exists an aable function。

Because you can sometimes， you know， things break with natural probability， such that。

For every lambda security parameter。And for every X and W。

In the relation corresponding to the language， so the W is an NP witness。The probability。Over CRs。

So for almost all CRs， there may be some that are bad， but for almost all of them。

The verifier that gets a CRRS。Get X。And gets a proof that was honestly generated， P。Of CRs。X and W。

The probability that this verifier accepts。Is one minus negligible。

And the probability is also over the randomness。Of P。The ver is actually deterministic。So。

 this guy is deterministic。Okay， so， this just means assuming except with that almost all CRRS is。

If you， the prover generates a pie。It will be accepting with overwhelming probability。Okay。

 that's the easy one。 How about some this。So scientists says。That if you're a cheating prover。

You should not be able to， to convince me of a false claim。There's two notions of soundness。

 I'm going to give you the adaptive one。 One can also consider a weak or non adaptive。

So let me write the adaptive one。 then I'll say， what's the non adaptive one。

So the adaptive sound says the fouling。For every。AP star。Cheing prover。The probability。That。P star。

It gets as input Cs。 And in that sense， it's adapted。 So a CRS is generated。

He gets to the CRS and based on the CRS。😊，He chooses some x in time。😊，The instance。And proof。

And now we see the probability。That this instance is not in the language。And nevertheless。

 with the verifier。Except。This is negligible。Okay， so a cheating prover。😮。

With overwhelming probability on the Cs。😮，Cannot。F cannot then there does not exist in X that's not in the language and that verifies。

呀。Because who knows， Okay， good， good， Who knows。 So great question。

 So the ver who who the question is， who chooses x。So there are many first you can say for every x。

 not in the language that everyone knows。😡，You know， the poorer cannot find pi。

 There will be the non ative version。So， non adaptive。That let me。

 So there's two variants here that I want to talk about。 Theres， if you want non adaptive。Then， x。

It's fixed。Before。CS。And then you say for every x not in the language。This should hold。Now。

 let me say something It's。Non adaptive version is weaker。

 because it only says you cannot cheat with respect to x's。That are don't depend on the CRs。Now。

 one can。Yeah， I mean， what do you mean X depends on the C S， That's a weird thing Like， okay。

 the C S is like a random thing。 are you going to give me a random statement that depends like。

 I don't， Why would I care about statements that depend on the CRs。

And the answer to that is it depends。😊，In in your application， who is the one choosing the X？Because。

You can think that， well， if you choose the x， depending on the CRRS， maybe the x is nonsense。But。

 it turns out。Like if there's one thing you should learn from this class is that， you know。

We're not really careful with our definition and give robust definitions， the adverary。

We'll be able to kind of。Use it against us。 Okay， so， for example， maybe the scheme。

 if you appended the last x， a bunch of bit depend here things are broken。

Then it may be a problem because then maybe as an in， I can tell you， this Max， oh。

 forget about the life part。 It doesn't matter anyway。 And I prove it to you。 now I can cheat。So。

You know， non adaptive is not meaningless， but adaptive is better。Okay。I want to mention one more。

 One can also。Think about computational soundness。And then， this is going to be。

Only polynomial size cheating provers cannot cheat。

And that's gonna be what's called computational sound。So there's that notion， too。Okay， so if you。

 if you only restrict polynomial size， it's called computational sound。 that's also weaker。

But the way I define without this is kind of the most， the strongest possible E soundness。Okay。

 now let's see zero knowledge。😮，And zero knowledge is also， there's many variants。I mean。

 theres the computational statistical。But there's more than that。And let me， so let me write it down。

So the intuition for zero knowledge should be。That the ver didn't learn anything。

What do mean didn't learn， It could have been simulated。Right。

 so let me try a zero knowledge definition。So note， by the way。

 we don't need to consider here cheating verifiers。 Remember when we talks about。

 and sometimes your knowledge here is much easier to define because before we said。

 even if the cheating verifier is malicious and tries to learn things。 So he gives you the raw， like。

😊，Weird bits are weird queries。 and he's trying to learn and so on。 he can't。Here。

 he doesn't get to choose anything。 The CR S has chosen， honestly， that very didn't approve。

 He just decides to accept a reject。Okay， so how would we define zero knowledge， we can say。

For every X and W。In the language or in the relation。I， I can say， okay， so already， you know what。

 let's do it together。 Okay， to show you how subtle these things are。 Okay。

 so now you experience crytoers。 So let's， let's see。 Let me try one version。😊，I want to say。

 for every X W。嗯。Okay， if I give you the real view。 So the real view， you get C S。

And you get to the proof。This is indistinguishable from the So the simulator。

Can generate this on his own。It can generate a ser in a fake proof。Whats， why is。

 I want to say this is too weak。 Why is this too weak。The prover can give， oh， that would know。

 that won't be 0。 If The prover gives W。 It's not zero knowledge at all。That will be zero proof。

 right， You want the prover to not give anything。So let me， let me give you。

 let me first say something that's wrong about here， okay。Okay。

 so what do we say for every X and W here this grows with the security parameter， right。

 This is for CR S from Gen。But X and W are fixed。Like， what。

What does this mean for every fixed X and W， now we choose Lambda。And we。

 we say that these are independent。 So we only consider like fixed X and W。

 We say for every fixed X and W， you don't learn。 But what if x grows with security parameter。Right。

 here we say fix X and W。Now we grow with the security parameter。

 these are all kind of ensembles that grow with security parameter。But poor X and W got fixed。But。

 I want zero knowledge also for access that grow with the security parameters。Okay， so now， okay。

 so this is， this is fixed。 So now let's say maybe another way to say it。Is okay。

 for every security parameter。And for every x that grows。 So we can say for every。

Like instance generation algorithm that generates X and W。 So for every I， like。

That gets1 to the lambda and outputs x and W and R。This holds。Okay。

 so you have some algorithm that chooses x and W。Okay， so now you need to be careful。

Because at least you need this to be like polynomial size。Because otherwise。

 he can choose x to be of psi 2 of the lambda。And if x is too big。Now。

 like you give the distinguisher too much runtime and it'll break hiding because the hiding is only computational。

So you need to make sure that this X and W were only phenomenon security parameter。

 once they become exponential security parameter。Basically。

 you say a polynomial time distinguisher that sees this in this。

 but if it's a polynomial time and you gets something of linked to the La。

 then now we run the time Paul to theland。😡，And in that time， you can break the equipment。Okay。

 so fine。 So poly size。 good。 Now we're getting there。 We're good。This is a fine definition。

 but just note this is what we call non adaptive。 So this definition is non adaptive。😊。

Zero knowledge。In adaptive zero knowledge。A and W may depend on the CRs。So here's another issue。

 Let's say I'm a verifier。 I want to learn thing。 Okay， now I tell you， oh。

 can you prove to me that x is in the language where I'm gonna choose x。That kind of， you know。

 has like maybe for specific X's that I don' know， I've some somewhat related to the CRRS， I start。

 I start learning。So now I tell you， oh， good music you for this X somehow related to the C S。

 and now no no longer your knowledge。So again， this case seems a bit contrived， but， you know。

 I'm just pointing this is an non adaptive adaptive version， which is going to be even stronger。

Will allow I to get in as input to the CRS。So now we want to say even if vaccine W are chosen to depending on the CRRS still。

The you can simulate。呀。Yes。He know good。 He knows。 Yes， The simulator knows X because a。Oh， sorry。

 This is no good because I call， yeah， this is， you're right。 Sorry， this is PT。It's not。

It's randomized and yes， sorry， thank you。Thank you。 Yeah， he's given only X。 This is a PT algorithm。

 He's given only X。 He's the X And W。 Thank you very much。😊，Good catch， thanks。Good。Questions， happy。

 strong enough， not happy。So I want to say this is still not strong enough。Okay。

 let's take a two minute break。 You can think about a little bit if you want。

 And then I'll tell you what， I'll show you how you can make it stronger。

 And then we're gonna see a construction。嗯。😊，Okay， I don't know because we didn't yet。 We。

 we released it， right， The midterm， Okay， we released it， but we didn't yet。Take away。 the。

 We didn't do the calculation of which problem we should omit for each student。

So we don't know what the average is。诶。But with the score you got， you should emitmit the like。Buty。

 we released it， but we didn't calculate for you， which。Question doesn't count。But yeah。

 we should find the。Average， I guess。Release something at some point， yeah。嗯。Before draft 8。Yeah。

 I guess so。Something， we should say something。 Yeah。

 we'll figure something out and come back to you。 when it's dropped。Like this one in today。Oh， O。

I guess we're meeting tomorrow。O。So， okay， to tell you the truth， I don't know。 Okay。

 willll say something， but we， theres still like only three of the P sets out of the five are graded and the midterm is graded。

So。Three of them are graded。Right。Yeah， the third， the third is is kind of graded No， Yeah。

 third is great。Exactly， so theres still more， there's two more P sets， I guess。I'm yeah。 so， okay。

 we'll try to say something， but I'm not sure。I'm not really sure what it is we can actually say。

Okay， we'll think about it if， if you， if you are concerned。Email us。 Otherwise， we'll say something。

 but not sure it's gonna be give you much information because I'm not sure， you know。

 not everything is graded。 So it's hard for me to。你けあとさ。完。かくさ。Yeah。No doubt， yeah。Yeah。Yeah。

 I'll give something to say if you're below that。 then maybe you wan。

 I'll try to say something vague。 But if you're worried， come to me， okay。嗯。Okay。EOkay。

 let's continue then。 Okay， so why is this not strong enough。So here is， let me try。Okay。

 suppose your approver。 Okay， you want to approve statements。And I tell you。

 use my skin at zero knowledge。 It's like， okay， yeah， you can you learn nothing great。

So someone ask you make proof， you give a proof。Then the partner asks you to give her proof。

give a proof。Then Andrew ask you if you give a proof， now apart and Andrew come together。

 they show each other the proofs。 Now they have two proofs。😊。

It's not clear the two groups can be simulated。I promised one proof could be simulated。

Great question in normal zero knowledge。诶You you。You get this auxiliary input， exactly， exactly。

 exactly。That's exactly why the ailian foot was there。Okay， and here there' is just a notion。

 there's single instance zero knowledge， and then there's multi instance zero knowledge and multi instance zero knowledge says for any instance generator that generates many x's and ws。

😊，If you get many proofs， you can simulate the many proofs given many xs。Okay。

 so there is a notion of many instance。That's more meaningful。 Let me， let me。 Okay。

 so maybe I can write it quickly。 But the many instance notion says that if I generate x。IWI。For I。

let's to go on K。Then。Given all of these。The simulator can simulate all of them given， I guess， x1。

Have to escape。Okay， so we just gave given the K instances and it can generate all the proofs。

So here you get CRRS and all the proofs。😊，Also， you can put here also X， sorry。And here also。

 so he gets all the xs and generates all the proofs。Okay， yeah， so there should be X。

 I forgot it before also。 So the here you have a CRRS。

 an instance in a proof or many instances and many proofs。

And this guy should generate the same thing。 Basically， generate a CRS。

 the same distribution over access and proofs。Okay， so how do we construct this thing。

 How do we construct an is。So now， let me tell you， and I， let me first construct。

 an is it like an ideal model。Okay， so here is the basic idea。So， you know。

 we had our protocol for three coloring that we saw。

RightNow we said if you want to maintain zero knowledge。

 you need to repeat it like okay it has terrible soundness。

 repeat it sequentially and you'll get good soundness and now you get a ton of runsze。

 so it's really awful。Now I'm telling you no， no， repeat it in parallel。So wait。

 you been parallel it it sounds your knowledge。 It's still attractive and that's your knowledge。True。

 however， it is honest ver your knowledge。Okay， so。Take the protocol！For three coloring。

The zero knowledge。The Zk protocol for three coloring。 Okay， let me denote it by alpha。Beta gamma。

Okay， so commitment， let's， I don't want to put public parameters。

 So take the commitment scheme without the public parameters。 Okay。

 so I don't need to do another round。 So here you commit all the colors。Here you get a random edge。

 and you open。The two commitments。Okay， that's kind of I'm just。

 this is just the notation for the three colouring protocol。No。I'm going to do parallel repetition。

So， now。You give me first alpha 1 up to alpha K。 And then I give you K edges， be 1 up beta K。

 And then you give me K opening gamma 1 up to gamma K。This is sound。But it's not zero knowledge。

 It's still attractive and not zero knowledge。However， what it is。

 this is what's called honest verifier Xonology。😊，So if the verifier happened to be honest。

Then you can simulate this。 Okay， this is what's called honest。Verifier。Why can you simulate this。

 Because you just simulate basically。You simulate one， then you simulate the other。

 You simulate each one separately。And if the ver is honest good enough。

 because the ver doesn't choose these beta maliciously， depending on the alpha， they're just random。

So basically， you choose a random edge， you put all the commitments where that random edge。

 you put the actual two random colors and you open Another time you choose a random edge。

 you choose random commitments， everything can be zero except for two random colors。

 according to the edge and then you open。😊，That's， that's kind of how you simulate。Okay。

 so this is honestly we charge your knowledge。Now， I promised you zero knowledge， not honest fair。

 zero knowledge， and I promised you none interactive。So I'm falling short for my promises。

So how do I， how do I kill both two birds with one stone。What I'm going to do is my CRs。

Is going to be a hash function。Okay， now think now think of this hash function as being a completely truly random function。

 like a random oracle。So， suppose the。P and V， not only do they have like a common random string。

 they actually have an oracle。 So there's a trusted person。 they come and tell them， oh。

 what is the oracle value on on an input X And the oracle says why a random Y and they can come to him with any kind of input they want and up they get like the answer H of their input where H is a completely random function。

😡，I know this is a weird model。 That's called the random oracle model。

 This random oracle model will be our friend now because it's going to kind of come with us the next couple lectures。

But， but suppose for now that instead of a common random string， theres， again。

 some H like a black box to H where you can。Send questions， and get back answers。

Now I'm going to convert this into an Ia。Okay， how do I convert this into when is it。Okay， so now。

The basic idea is instead of having the verifier。Sample the random edges。We're going to use H。

To choose these random edge。Okay， so let me tell you the poover。Algorithm is the followinging。

It generates。First， we generates alpha 1 up to alpha K。As does like。

Like the prover for the three coloring。Like the partition 3 coloring， the interactive one。Okay。

 so basically。He commits to all the colorss。 So he has a colors。 He has his color。 He permates。

 commits all the edges。 Then again， has perms， commits， permes commits。

 That's kind of it does it K times。 We do it K times for to improve the soundness。 What is K。

 K is gonna be。 I didn't mention。 But K something like the number of edges。😊。

Time and security parameter， because each one with probability one over the number of edges。

 I only catch you with that probability。 So I need to repeat enough times to ensure that I catch you。

Okay， so I generate the first messages。Now， I don't want to interact with the ver。

Instead of interacting with a verifier。I think' interact with the hash function。Okay， so then。

I'm going to compute。Beta1 to beta K。啊。Let me call this alpha。As being。A alpha。Okay， so again。

 we all， there's some hash function that we all agree。

 And we have black box access to the hash function。Now I'm the prover。

 I'm going to generate actually all three messages on my own。I'm going to generate the alphas。😊。

And I'm going to generate by the be size by applying the hash function to my ion filess。

 And then I'm going to。😊，Open my alphas。Okay， so basically。

 I behave like the honest prover in the three coloring protocol。In the pale repeated version。

 But instead of interacting with a verifying。And asking the verifier， give me your edges。

 I go the oracle， and I tell the oracle， give me the edges。Okay， that's， that's it。

 And not what the verifier does。 So now the verifier。He also gets oracleax stage。

 So both of them get orleax stage。 And now he gets an X。And he's getting this alpha beta。And gamma。

As a proof。And what he does， he first checked that this is indeed H of alpha or what he does。

He check。That better。Is H of alpha？And then accept。If and only for this past。

 if and only if the ver of three coloring。Would have accepted alpha I。

 beta eye and gumma eye for every eye。Okay， so he when he sees this。

 he first needs to make sure beta was not maliciously he chose。

 and it was actually the hash function chose it。 Okay， so beta is h of alpha。

 And then assuming it is that this transcript， Al beta gamma， each one of them。

 each of the K repetition， they're all accepting。😊，So namely， this is a valid opening。

Of this commitmentment with respect to this edge。That that's the protocol。 that's my music。Now。

 of course， the next question is it sound and is it your knowledge？😊，And the answer is the following。

This ideal model， this random oral model， it sound and zero knowledge。😊。

And I'll give you a littletuition for why that's the case。Now， of course， okay。

 but we don't have random oracles。 There's no oracle in the sky that we can talk to， so。Who cares？

 So my answer to who cares is， oh， don't use a random oracle At the end of the day， you implement。

Some hash function。 So may ask which hash function。You know， you can try shot 2 56。

 It's one of the standardized hash function。And theyre like， okay。

 but its then if I do it with shot  56， is it sound in zero knowledge。😊，And the answer is。

We don't know。Maybe yes， maybe no。Okay， and then， of course， again， you're like， wait。

 so why should I use it。And the answer is。It's close enough。 It See like it works in practice。Okay。

 however， let me say， okay， but I have more to say and。诶。Okay， so what I want。 Okay， so。Basically。

 there exists a hash function。That we can use for which this will be sound。

And this will be at least once one0 knowledge。O， so I don't know if Chapt  56。

 it will be sounding zero knowledge。But， there exists。Some hash function。

 If you choose the commitment well。Maybe not the1 I showed， but there exists a coming。

 You can make it sound if you work hard， Okay， but not exactly this one， yeah。那PF。装是。Great， good。

 you can use a PRf。 But the thing is， if you use just a PRf and just hope to get the same， okay。

 that's a great great。 Que， the question is， look， a PRF is indistinguishable for random orle。

 So what's the problem。 Let's use a PRF。😊，And it's true if you're given black box access to the PRF。

 then everything goes through， you're right。 But if you give the prove in the ver。

 the description of the PRf， like the PRF key。Then it no longer looks random。

And then I don't know how to prove security。So if I have like a trusted party that has a PR。

Not a truly random function。 You know， who has a truly random function。 Nobody has， but。

Have have a trusted party that actually has a PRF。And I come1 with questions。

 and he gives me the answer， According to the PRF， Then I get soundness in your knowledge。But。

If I give， if I don't have a trusted party， I just have like a string to put in the sky。

 and I put the PRF key。Then I don't know how to prove Someson0 anymore。哎呀。😡，4月101。No。疑です。No。

 it's not exactly good point。 It's interesting。 I start with an honest verifier。 So youre saying。

 wait， how am I God now good with malicious verifier and。Exactly。

 basically that now the ver doesn't get to choose beta。 It's the hash function who chooses beta。

This function is like， honest， because it's random。And that's why actually， like in some sense。

 zero knowledge is made easier。😊，Because we， we prevent。

 we don't give the verifier that freedom to choose a malicious malicious queryries beta。

 We have the hash function。 Choose them。 And the hash is like， honest， we chose the hash。😊，Okay，2， O。

 good。 You're saying， wait， what do you mean， what if there's collisions， I don't。

 I'm going choose them not to collide。 So if the Hahmken is truly， truly random。

It's extremely unlikely that you'll see collisions。Okayk， so I have a couple minutes。

 I want to give you the intuition， at least for white Xology and white sound。

So let's start with soundness。 So soundness， like， if you're a cheating prover。

I we put it with sound if you were interacting with a verifier。

Now it's sedi tracking with a verifier。 So if you're interacted with the actual verifier。

You can convince them only with negative probability。Now。

 instead instead of interacting with a verifier， you're interacting with the hash function。

 But the hash function is random。 He's like a verifier。

 There's no difference between the hash and the verifier。So you also succeed an extra probability。

 The only difference is that you can try again。 You know， the verifier。

 you try once is's like you're rejected。 I don't want to talk to you anymore。With function。

 you can try again and try again and try again。 But if every time you succeed to have negative probability and you can try only polynomial many times because polynomial time。

 then you're not going to succeed。That's the basic idea behind soundness。And for zero knowledge。

I'll tell you how I'm going to simulate。The way I'm going to simulate is。😮，So now I'm a simulator。

 and I'm going to simulate a proof。I'm going to simulate。I'm going to simulate alpha beta。

And Gahanma， like。I must verify zero knowledge。So assuming the verifier as honest。

 I'm going to simulate this。But now， this has nothing to do with the hat function。So now that verify。

 the simulator also gets to choose the CRRS， if you remember。

So now the hash that hes going to kind of has control over， he's going to program in this hatch。

 he's going to ensure that this hatch when s Alhi。You give better eye。

And this is indistinguishable from a random oracle， because。Indeed， a bit was random。

So now basically， what the simulator does， he's like， okay， here's your oracle。

 It's completely random， but an an， you give bit eye。And here's my simulation。

 like the honest verified simulation。And that's it。Okay， so now， of course。Once you convert。

 you change this the hash to an explicit hash。 you can't program。

 You don't have room to program all this alpha Beta like you can program。😡。

And so to get zero knowledge for many messages， not in the random orle。

 you will need a different technique。 You'll need to do something。Okay， it's not that simple。

You'll need to slightly change the at least slightly。 Okay， you'll need to change something。

 And we have a。A pieceet question about this， right。

About how to make this zero knowledge without random marks。Okay， so you'll do that in P at 5。Okay。

 and our time is up。 So okay， thank you。😊，See you on Wednesday。

