# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p04 6.5620 Lecture on 9⧸15⧸2025 (Mon).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p4-

Okay。You're still here。Thank you。啊。Okay， so let's just do a quick recap of what we did last time。

 So in last class， we defined the notion of pseudo randomum generator。

 And the purpose of this definition is to allow us to do a secure encryption where the message。

Is can be longer than the key than the length of the key。

 The length of the message you want to be longer than the length of the key。

 And that's what enabled us。 That was kind of the tool。 And the definition。

 just to recap the definition of a pseudo randomum generator or PR G for short。It's a function G。

 It takes us into security parameter。 So actually， G can B is basically goes from 0，1 star。 Okay。

 can pick anything。 but we'll focus on like 0，1 is some security parameter that we're interested in。

😊，To some dejuta n of security parameter N of lambda。

 And it needs to satisfy the following three conditions。 First efficiency。

 we should be able to compute it。 Okay， so there's a polynomial time T machine that given X output G of X。

😊，Okay， so it should be efficient computable。Second， it should be expanding。

 So n of lambda should be bigger than lambda。And3 is what we call pseudoandum。 It should look。

 if you look at G of uniform。 So basically， if I choose a uniform sample and I give you G。

Of that number of that string。It should look like it's completely uniform。So。The distribution， sorry。

 G of。The distribution G of a uniform string， a blank lambda。

Versus the and the distribution of truly uniform strings of length n。These two look the same。Now。

 again， theyre very different。This one has only lambda bits of entropy。

 This one has n bits and n of lambda bits of entropy， which is bigger。

So this has more entropy than this。Therefore， they're very different。

But in the eye of a computationally bounded adversary。They look the same。 That's all we want。

And what we showed last time， an equivalent definition。And which this is， of course， seems like。

 yeah， that's what pseudoranous means。 it looks random。This definition appears in。At first。

 they appeared to be weaker。But it turns out to be equivalent。And the。

 this definition is what we called next bit unpredictability。It just means。

 So what does it mean to look uniform， Basically， what want to say is。AnyAdversary。

 any poly science adversary。That tries to predict the next bit。

 He's getting the the pseudom string up until point I。 He tries to predict the next one。

 He shouldn't succeed。 like with uniforms， you can predict。So for anypoliized adversary。

Theyre this a negligible mu。 So you can always have like negligible advantage。 which for us， again。

 negible is like 0， basically。So there is this a negligible mu such that for every security parameter。

 every eye。 So whatever eye is the bit he wants to predict。He's given the first I -1 B。If I is one。

 then he's given nothing。 Okay， hes just likes say the security parameter。

He's given the first I minus1 bit。And hes trying to predict the out bit， the next bit。

If it was random， the next bit is completely uniform。

 So he shouldn't be able to predict only for half。And now we say here also。

 he predicts with purposemo half plus the negligible。So， of course， if it were uniform。

 you expect this to hold。 And therefore， if it's pseudo random。

 you expect this to hold for bounded adversaries。But what's interesting is， this implies。

S randomness。 And that's kind of what proof we went through last time。

And the reason this is important is because when we prove。

 So what we're going to do today is we're actually construct random generators。

So we're going to give a construction。 And when we prove that our construction is indeed sort of random。

 we're going prove this。O， because it's just easier to prove。Okay。

 so that's kind of what we did next time。 And again， the reason， like we want this tool of a PR G。

 Well， it's kind of the bread and butter of cryptography。 It will come up。Throughout class。

 So please understand this notion。 But for now， why we wanted it is it gave us an encryption scheme。

 right， So the encryption， basically， we can an encryption scheme with a key space。

 The key is gonna be lambda bits， random kind of lambda bit string。😊，And the message space。

Is going to be N bit string。 So N is larger。 N being the stretch of the PR G。

 So if you gave me a PR G。That stretches lambda bits， the end bits。

Then I can give you an encryption scheme where the key link is lambmbda。The message link。Is N。

And basicallysically， what we do is really the same as the one time pad。

But instead of applying the one time pad on the key。

I' going to do the one time pad and the stretched。Okay， so a PR G of the key。

And since this looks random。it's as secure as the one time pad against bounded adversaries。

So this is just a recap。From what happened last class。

Are there any questions before we actually move on to construct PR Gs。Okay。Okay so actually。

 but before I go on to today's topic， there were a few many of you actually were kind of confused about the notion like polysized adversaries。

 nonun poly sizeized adversaries versus uniform ones so I just want to say a few words about that and also there's our wonderful Tas created for you guys kind of a couple pages with review that kind of give really really good intuition and exam kind of why we use nonun versus uniform。

 so please look at the website it's on the website already。😊，Oh， well be really soon。So。

 so please look at the website really soon and you'll see it and read it， read it。

' It's really great。 but let me say a few words about it， okay， so。😊。

You guys all learned about chewing machine， right in a tuing machine， you。

 it's like basically a constant size。Devicice， okay， where， you know。You can run it very， very long。

 but to describe it， it's only constant size。ok。The non uniform model， which is the model we。

Consider our adversaries。 So we allow adversaries to be non uniform。So in the non uniform model。

 basically for every， you should think of it， you have a trim machine。 but for every X input of size。

 let's say Lada or whatever Lada and whatever the input is。 let's say for any input link。

 So for any input link， let's say Lambda。You have an advice team。

The advice tape only depends on the length of the input， not in the input itself。So for every link。

 you have some advice。And you can。Use this advice to to use in your computation。Okay， so again。

 and this is。I'm thinking of this a bit as kind of assuming you know it， but again。

 you'll see in the handout that you'll find the web。

 but basically the idea is you have a train machine M。But now， for everyone。P link。蓝的。

You take its input， not only x。So you think of the input。As being X， and also， some advice。Sub Lada。

 this advice doesn't depend on X only on Lada， only on the links。So， so sorry。

 let me write it better。So it won't be confused for every lambda there exists。Advisring。

And this advice stream should be of size poly Lada。So not too large。 Okay。

 it's poly related to the input。 such that。Now， M takes as input， not only x the actual input。

 it also takes as input this advice。Now， why。You know， and and runs and。

 so turninguring machine is non uniform。Let's say， non uniform poly time。

If the device is of size par and。M runs。嗯。Poly time。This is ex in。0 wanted to the lamb。Okay。

 so basically， the tri machine doesn't only take X。哎，退。Hint。Okay， some information。Of length lambda。

啊，珀利兰的。And that。That advice。To try to break our schemes。我这样。我 makes。Good。

 this is exactly what makes sound uniform。 Who gives you this advice。

This is we call this the non uniform device。Okay， now， why do we consider。

 Why do we allow the as to have nonin advice， What is this。So basically。

 the way we think of this non uniformform device， there are several ways to think about it。

 one way to think about it。Is this is kind of in a pre processing。 Okay。

 that we maybe kind of over the generation， we learned some。 So let's say it's factoring easier hard。

 We don't know。Man， does there is this a uniform training machine that solve in Ta。 We don't know。

 but maybe 12 generations kind of we got information like we became smarter and smarter and smarter。

 and we got like this advice。 You know， now we can use it。 We don't have to reconstruct this advice。

Okay， but basically， the way you should think about it is。

 let's say now we use some security parameter of， you know。

 some inputs were were concerned inputs of length Lambda。And the question is。

 does there exist like a program。Some program that breaks our assumptions。

 that breaks factoring that does there a program that breaks factoring of factors number of。

 I don't know，2048。Now， the program。it can， It can be very very long。

 and the program can grow as the Lada equals 2048 bit grow。Concent science。

And that kind of captures this kind of non uniform device。Okay， so that， yes。Good。

 it can be anything， but it cannot depend。And the input。K is part of the input。

So it can depend on the input。Okay， so the adversary。 So here， like in the case of encryption。

 the adversary gets his input。 I don't know a cipher text。Or， you know。

 and he needs to guess what the message is。哎，呀。No case is uniform distributed。 You're right that。

 you know， when you and I share a key， we agree on it。

But we choose it randomly after the advice is fixed。So first and advice is fixed。

 That's why it's very important that our key is random。Okay， the advice is fixed。

 and now we we choose a random key， uniformly random， and we argue security。Very good。

 Great question。 So the advice is fixed before our parameters or all that is chosen。

 like our secret keys， our and so on is chosen。😊，Great question。Other questions。Okay， so this week。

 today and on Wednesday。We're going construct PR Gs。 Okay， so that was just a side note。

 And I encourage you to read the handout on， on this。诶。Constructingan generators。 So， O。

 it's very nice。Sur random generators is really this magical object that allows you to generate randomness out of thin air。

 And I've been going on and out of how amazing this is。

 And look all the amazing thing we can do we really like magicians， magicians and so on。

 But now the question is， well， very nice， but can we actually construct this damn thing right Like is it actually。

 does it exist？😊，And here is what's known。 This is a really beautiful theorem。Yeah。Yeah， of course。

So here's a beautiful theorem， actually pseudo random generators exist。😊，啊。

That one way functions exist。And one way functions is really the minimal kind of assumption a cryptographic assumption。

 So maybe I'll write it here。 So we'll have it just to recap definition。啊， one we function。Is。

Easy to compute。Is。So it's just efficient。So there's a polymoial time algorithm given an input output。

 F of that input。It's hard to invert。And let me say this little more formally。

 this means that any algorithm， any poly size algorithm。I inverted。

Well succeed only with Ne probability， namely for any there exists and negligible。想知道。

The probability。Such that for every lambda。That probability A is given F of x。Is uniform in 0。

1 to the lambda。 So a uniformly random string of a certain input length is chosen。

The adversary is given X。Of that string。And you should try to invert that。

So his goal is to output some x prime。Or to output something another way to。

Something in the F inverse of F of x。The reason I'm writing inside is because Ebacks may have many ins。

So as long as he outputs anything in this interverseect。Okay。

 so this is just the set of the x prime such that F of x prime is equal to f of x。

And the probability is succeed in finding an input。Is't nelig。Okay。

 that means it's a one way function。Okay， so it's a function that easy come to compute。

 But if I'm giving you after that for a random act。

You should not be able to invert that to find some x prime so that f of x prime is equal to F of x。

So you can do that only with tangible probability。O。And okay， so good now what to know。Is that。啊。

PreG。You can construct one。Assuming。That one way functions to exist。

So if you give me a one way function， I'll use it to construct a PR for you。你看。Now， we。

 we're not going to prove this theorem is dueta。I am in。

A we're not going to prove this in the references in the notes。 We're not going prove this theorem。

 Actually， the the proof of this theorem is really， really beautiful。

 It's really one of the gems of cryptography。 I'm going prove to a simpler version of this theorem。

 Okay， so one component kind of in it。 So the theorem we're gonna to prove today is。😊，Slight。

Simplification， and we're gonna sue one way for mutation。Okay， so this is。1。we。

And maybe you are going to give you some homework。And a little bit how to kind of go beyond。

 We'll see we'll works work in progress。嗯Okay。So。So what is a one way per mutation， let me just say。

 So one rate per mutation is a one way function。Which is also permutation。 Okay， so what。

 what do I mean， So I want my permutation。It's easy to compute。It's hard to invert。

Similar same thing。 but also it's a permutation。 And when I。

 what I mean by permutation is that it takes inputs of length lambda。T inputs a blank lambda。

And it's a bijection。Okay， so。Just means for every act。In 0，1 to the lambda。Efffferve。

Its also in 01 to the lambda。 So it's length preserving， and it's a biject。So。Which means。

For every Y， there is a unique X。That such that f of x is equal to y。 Okay， just a permutation。Okay。

 so that's we're going to prove that。Questions before we begin。Okay。

 so the first thing we're going to argue is it's actually enough。

 I'm going to show you what we're going to spend most of our time on is constructing a PRG。

That stretches by only one bit。O， so P G that take lambander bits， Calda person bits。

And I claim that's enough。 if you have that。You can get any stretch you want。P let me。Show that。So。

So you focus。So our focus。In this week， I terrain is constructing。A。Their takes， lamb the bits。

2 lambda plus 1 bit。Assuming。Ex of。One way perutation。Okay， that's what we're gonna to focus on。

 And why is this。あ。Why is this good enough？So。那你。Here's the theorem。If you have。A PR G。

That stretches that only one bit。I can use it to construct a PR G。That stretches。By basically。

 any polyly number of bits。Okay， so。What。G。Be a PR G。

Now I'm going to construct a PRD that structures more。Any idea？ How would you yeah。G。

 exactlyactly how， O， then precisely， I'm going to apply G。 I get now something that looks random。

 but only Im the plus one bit。But it looks random。So I can play due to that。And then getla。

 the plus two bits。Now这是串的。So I can pledge you to that lambda plus 3 bits and so on。By the。

 I just want to mention one abuse of notation that I'm doing When I say G goes from 01 to the lamb That is 01 to the lambda plus  one。

Really， what I mean， it goes from S。From 01 to any string。

 but it takes strings of length lambda thanda plus one。 So long does anything。Okay， it's just。

 I want， I want。 I'm writing it。 It's really gig goes from 01 starts to 01 star。

 but it takes string to blink lambda theda plus1。 And I'm writing it this way because its just。

 I want to emphasize that it takes lambda the lambda plus one。Okay， but it takes。

 you can plug in any lambda here。So。Then。For any case。For any polynomial。He。Okay。

 so k dependsland that。I want to give the G to the K。Is a PR G also。 Now。

 let me tell you what G to the K is。 G to the K is just you apply G。U， not on uniform， but G and G。

Okay， so we applied Gk times。And the uniform you。 you start with the uniform of lambda bit。

 apply G to it。 Now you have lambda plus one bit。 You apply G to it。 Now， lambda2 bit。 apply G to it。

 and so on and so forth， you do that take times。And the claim is that this is。A PR G2。Okay。

 and therefore， because you can take here and note that the number。Also。

 let me just mention G to the K goes from it。From 01 to lambda to 01。Lnda class。Okay。

 so we take G1 at extent I one bit。If you take it at K times， it extends by lambda by Kbit。

So now you'll have as much stretch as you want。Okay， and that's why it's enough to get one stretch。

 yes。G is deterministic。 Yeah， Jim must be the good。 The definition of a PR G。

 It's really a function。 Okay， it's a deterministic function。 Great question。O。

So next thing we're gonna to do is we're going to prove this theorem。

 Any questions before we do that。Okay， so what people theorem？Okay， so let's go the definition。

 What do we need to prove， We need to prove that it's efficient。

We inter to prove that it's expanding and we inter to prove that it's to。So。Okay。

 the fact that it's efficient。It just fall from the fact that G is efficient。And K is Pa Painandnda。

 So， you know， you run you Pa time。 So everything is Parliament。Yeah， so this is just follows。From。

Efficiency。Oh。And from the fact that K is a most poll number。呀。How about expansion。

The fact its expanding。 Well， of course， G is expanding。 This just follows from the fact that K is。

就是。Gooder than one。 Okay， that just follows from and the fact that Jesus expanded。

 basically by definition。 that's it。How about to。 thats kind of the。Tricky part。 Not that tricky。

 but。Okay， how will we argue that it to random。Any ideas？

 How would you go about proving that it's random， You know that G Surran。

You want to argue that when you apply G K times， when you iterate， it's still sort。Right。

 but how do you how what what kind of true， But what kind of technique do we use for iterate to do something iteratively。

You're right。 I'm going to take into。 You're right。 I You're right。

 I'm going to do some kind of hybrid。I can do this kind of by induction。Okay， so， so let's see。

 But you need to be very， very careful when you do things by induction。 I'll explain。 So， you know。

 let's try by induction。So， okay， K equals one。The base case。 Well， that's random from an assumption。

 The assumption is the G Sur randomum。 So this is by assumption。S let's do the induction step。

 So suppose it' twotor randomum coque -1。 So if you run it K -1 times。It's pseudo randomum。

 We're going argue that if you run at K times， it's also pseudoanum。

I want to put induction this like this because it's I'm a bit blind here。 Okay， and I'm doing it to。

 I like to write guys， know。I want to show you where you need to like loop where we， where we fall。

 Okay， and I want to warn you， So you won't follow。Okay， so suppose， you know。

 when you apply k -1 times。It's super random。 Then when you apply K， K times。

 it's also pseudo random。 That's what I want to。 That's what we need to show， right。

So how do we show that Okay， so。Okay， I should have calculated the boards better， but。

So now how do we do it， Okay， what do we need to argue， We need to argue that GK。

 so we need to argue that basically GK。Of you lambda。Is equivalent to you of lambda plus。

We need to sorry that these two are computationallydable， right。

 This distribution and this distribution are computationally distinguishable。

 That's what we need target。 This is the different surrounding。

That's prove that that they're indinguishable。 So what do I mean they're indinguishable。

 I need to say that any， so fix。 So to prove that， we're going to fix。爱你。Poticize adversary。

And he's going to try to distinguish。 and we're going to argue that he fails。So let's see。

 what is the probability？That A was given G to the K。A you uniform？Output one。V is the probability。

That A， I'm uniformed。啊不错。Really target that this is negligible。

 This is the definition of computational distinguishability， right。

 that any adversary he tries to distinguish between the pseudoandum or the randomum。

But he can't hear the when the。You know， he tried maybe here to put a one in here to put a zero。

But no， the proposal 1 is the same in both places。Okay his goal output。

 and this he should up with pseudoran。 And here should up random。 I know。 maybe one means pseudoran。

 maybe0 means random。He fails he's going to offer one exactly the same。 That's what we want to argue。

 the difference between the two is neligible。How do we argue that， Well， we。

 we assume that for K -1 it's negligible。Right， so what is this， This is just。G to the K。

I do treats came minus1 Let me just make sure that I'm doing the same thing as the notes。嗯。

This is just G to them。K -1 of U Lada。 This is just by definition， right。Okay。

 so then what I'm going to do。 Now， I know that this。Looks here。Yeah， so I want to use that。

 So where I'm going to use it， I'm going to say this is equal to the probability that G。Of K or G。

 this is。This is just a way to write D D to the K and uniform is equal Y。

 So that the pseudoran distribution， you output one。Now。

 I'm going to write minus the probability the G and uniform of lambda plus k -1。嗯。

I forgot the adversary sorry， he disappeared。The probability。At the adversary。

And this outputs one minus the probability。The deadverary。 And this outputs one。Now。

 let me add this back。Probability。That adverary， because I just subtracted it。 So let me add it back。

Outputs。Minus the probability。The adversary and uniform。按付钱。Yeah。

 so what I do did I just subtract and out of the same thing。 I didn't do anything。

 but the reason I did that is because now I can use the triangle inequality and instead of arguing that these are equal。

 I'm going to say this is smaller equal。2。Absolute value here。 plus absolute value here。该诉。

Without these absolute valves in the middle， of course。

 it's the same as the above because I just took this， subtracted something。

 added it immediately back up。And tried， I didn't do anything。

 I just subtracted and added the exact same thing。But now I'm going to use the triangle inequality to actually take the。

Absolute values of this plus the absolute values of this。 So this follows from tril inequality。Now。

 what do we have well。Here。I know Matt from。 So I want to argue this thing。Is negligible， why？呀。

Exact。This is at most， let me call it mu k minus-1， and this is from induction hypothesis。

Where I'm thinking of this guy's anniversaryverary。He's either getting suandum。Or。😮。

He's getting random。Okay， so either pseudo random with G to the K -1。Or the random one。Okay。

 so basically， what is this adversary He gets G to the came Marison or random。

He stres it by one for the sake of it because he feels like it。 And then he runs in。

That's that's an adversary。 And we assume that he fails。So， okay， so that's small。And this。

 how about this？Why is this negligible。啊。Exactly， this is by the base case。 right， This is because。

 so this is at most。 Let me call it mu1。 This is because exactly G is a PR G。你做了吧。Great。

 now the reason I call this mu K -1 is because。And this new one is that in here。In this case。

 I'm using the fact that g to the K -1 is pseudoendum。And in this case。

 I'm using the fact that Jesus。Okay， so that's just for location。 Okay。

 then nelig plus neglig neligge。Great。So we're done， yeah。

The issue is that this induction group only use the thing。exactlyact， Okay， so why did I lie。

 Like why， why the reason I wanted to say this is because this is a very extremely common mistake。

 Okay， not only a common mistakes for， you know， young students。

 it's also a common mistake for us people do cryptography for 20 years。So why what， let me again。

 you said exactly correctly， what， What's the problem， The problem is that， yeah， you can do it。

 know， So basically induction， it's for constant。 It， it works for constant K， but。

You can go on and on and on and can do it。The problem is。If you。

If you go on and on and on and on and on and do it。ly not clear that you got。

And the reason whys not to you， let me give you a clean exact like an example。

Suppose suppose this me one was exactly UK Min。Okay， suppose maybe。This and this4。ok。

So you started with a mule， you had one thing， you got another mule， now you have two mule。

Then you did once more， tomb you and tu you。 So I have formula。You learn more， form you， inform you。

Now you have eight meal。 So namely， the problem is。对。The issue is the following this。In general。

 if you so be already here for a second。Suppose for a second。

 Suppose it was the case that actually mu1 with mu K。 So maybe the what you got here。

 Supp it's not the case。 But if you got here mu K -1 plus mu K -1， maybe that was kind of your mu K。

So when negligible， you got when you applied it K times。Is the negligible。Corresponding to k -1。

Nelig I plus negligible。 Okay was another ne corresponding to K -1。

Then the negligent corresponding to at K times is twice。But then， this would mean。

That the negligible topic。Is like basically2 to the K times in the blue world1。Because this is。

Two times mu K -1。 but this will be two times mu K -2。 So now you have。s2， and so on and so forth。

And then you'll get。This is this is only negligible in case like a most long lambda。So in general。

 you can do induction。Only。times。Very carefully check how much things are going。Okay。

 so basically what you say， yeah。Every time I do this， my ne grows by how much。And here。

 the important point is the negligible grows only by an additive。啊， factor。

That doesn't really depend on。 It depends on one application of。And because of that。You know。

 this is what makes due to the candi pie。 It's the fact that the additive。A here。

Is in an additive error that does not grow with how like the error of G2 K -1。

 It only depends only the air corresponding an application of just G， not G to L， yeah。好。Exactly。

 you need to be very， very careful of the air that you accumulate。Because the air you accumulate。

If you do a constant number of times it doesn't matter， two to the constant is a constant。

 once you do this constant number of times， it doesn't matter。

 but if you do this more than constant number of times， you need to do very。

 very careful bookkeeping of air or you need to do a different- what's really safer is to do a different type of hybrid argument which will appear in the notes。

Okay， but this is easier to， to teach。O。Any， any questions。

The the error would be basically muon plus muon plus muon plus muon plus mu K times， exactly。

That's exactly right。Where it's， it's not the exact same new one， because it's gonna be mu1。

 like the air of a applying G and uniform and and like strings of length lambda。

 plus the air of a applying G and strings of length lambda plus 1 plus the error of a applying G and strings of length lambda plus 2 and so on and so forth。

 And that's negligible。 That's exactly right。 So the reason this is negligible is because actually the error。

 So mu。😊，K will be。like。Let me call it mu1 plus mu 2。Plus。嗯。No， sorry， This is not bad notation。

 Let me call it。A okay， I'm gonna call it mu 1，1 plus mu 1，2 plus。Plus， mu1。K -1。 But each of these。

 this is just。EThis is there's no induction here。 This is just that this is just the advantage。Of a。

 this is the advantage of a。And， an input of length lambda。

 This is the advantage of thever of this adversary。

 and input of length lambda plus an input of length， yeah。Of this adversary。 and sorry。

 this is un stretch。do and inputs of length。Lada。です。Is for inputs of length。Lambda plus one。

And so on this， like mu1 I is going to be， theyre all they're all the neg advantage of distinguish between G and uniform versus uniform。

But where the uniform。The length。Grow， so here it's lambmbda here sumda plus1， lambmbda plus2。

 and so on so far。And that usually slightly changes in the， in the beginning。

 like one adverseverse is just a， then it's a on。then it's a and。

lambda then it's A time A concateated with G， then it's a concateated with。诶。Wait hold on one second。

 Okay， so， okay， so， let me write it better。 So this is， this is the advantage of G。Withver。

 this is like。One second。Yeah， so O， this is the advantage of G of a。Like， this is the adversary。

 and it's on inputs of length， Lambda plus K-1。 This is this。The next one is going to be the same。

 but like。We're going to do it on this。So it's going to be。A， another a。

Which is and the input is going to be lambda plus k-2， and the a is going to be。That's anniversary。

But it's still on。HeHe runs on G and disinlink。 and then it's going to be the adversary。

This is that Rorini runs on lambda plus k -2。And so on and so forth。

 So they're all nothing here is inductive。All each of these is uniform and their own。

 He had nothing to do with anything else。Gu standal alone。

 It just comes from the pseudo randomness of G。But with a different adversary and a different size。

That's the， yes。The different lab does。Yes， it's okay。 yeah， So this is one Lada。 This is， oh， sorry。

Yeah， they're different。 So this is -2。 This is -2。Yeah。Exactly， so this is one lambda。

 This is another lamb another lamb。 So the lambdas are kind of going to go down because。

So here is the biggest lambda Here is going to be a smaller lambmbda。 And as we kind of。N。

 it's going to become smaller。呀。喂。😮，范文松。Good， you're saying， you're saying。

 should you be worried about the fact that the lambmbdas are different。What do you mean3， Again。

 it's going to go down to。哦。It stop at La。 Lada is done。 So that's why in know。

 exactly it doesn't go below La。 Great， great。Okay， so， so okay， so for the rest of the class today。

 we're going to be focused on actually just constructing PR Gs that stretch by one bit。Okay。Question。

Okay， so let's take a couple minute break， and then we'll start the construction。So， okay。

 so let's continue。 So construction。 How do we construct it。So， okay。

 so let's fix some one way permutation， So。F。Beia one way per mutation。One wave per mutation。

And we want to use it。这跟出这票据。So how will we use it？So， here's the idea。

So what is the one permutation tells us， It tells us that if we give you F and uniform。

So我 so我自在一点他一点不放问，我自己。He should take uniform。So and this is just to say， or yeah， this is just。

 of course， it takes one element， but this is just to denote that it's uniform distributed。

 So it takes one element from the uniform distribution。And you want to generate lambda plus one。

So what would we do？That is a woman per mutation。That it means。The F。

It's also randomly distributed because it's a permutation。 So it's a ejection。

 So if you take uniform， you apply up to it， you get uniform。 So that's good。

But that's not stretching。So we take one bit。So we need to concatennate with one bit of stretch。

What is it that we're going， How we're going to stretch it。 So here's the idea。 We want to say。

 we say， look。You don't you don't know what you is， right， like the inverse。 So when you apply G。

And an input， when you apply， sorry， the one way function， one computationut and input。

 it hides the input。So， something about the input is。You don't know what it is。

 So maybe it'll choose that。 So suppose， for example， let's say S of X。

Comply high the first bit of X。When he said，Of course， what affect it？We can put here。

 so maybe I'll could， So G input X。Let's con with the。Cause if you have no idea， look。

 it had something， right， It it doesn't。It doesn't reveal the entire re。 This is from the fact。

 So this is uniform good。Assuming assuminging action。Ok， X is uniform。

 because it's from Jesus uniform。Now， we need to stretch by one， one more bit of uniform。We say。

 look。You don't know。That X is hidden。 Something should be hidden there。 You don't know what X is。

 What is it that we don't know。 The first band may be hidden。Second， which one。

Let's say the first one。So maybe given x of x。The first bit looks random。

Because something there should， you should be able to predict。

So maybe it's the first bit that you cannot predict which get better than guessing。

If yes ask well good， then you have a serium generator。Basically， we want to use the hardness。

Of inverting。For stretch。So there's this notion called a。A hardcore predicate。你 house。just said。

 where really is the hardness？啊，我为。It's hard to find X。Bx is big。 Give me one bit。 That's hard。Now。

 here's the setting，Actually be that。Predicting the first bit。Its。M really hard。

Maybe you can predict this from two thirds。And maybe predicting the second page is also mildly hard。

 probably two third。Each bit is only mildly heart。So， it may be。The F is one presentation。

 And for each bit that you try to put here。I' to be a PR G。given X of X。

There's always an adversary that predicts。I think。With probably two third。

 by predicting everything is you know， then it can be two thirds to the land or something。

 And now it becomes like be in 0 or negligent。So。That there's one bit， one index。

That is hard to predict。Okay， so in general。not， not sure。We can do this。But。

This notion of a hardcore predicate。 hardcore predicate。

 exactly is a predicate that kind of squeezes the hard。Okay， so we say that F， so definition。

And this is a predicate。 It takes only one bit output。 P is a hardcore predicate。It's mapping from 0。

1 star。Till 0，1。Good， it's hard。 Okay， it's hard。Okay， so first efficiency。

It is efficiently computable。So， you can compute。It in Pgnomial time。And second。

 what you want is that if you look at F of uniform Lada。So take F on the uniform distribution。

You should not find。They input。Then if you concatenated。With the Harcore predicate。This distribution。

Sorry， I don' not edit it way like this。This distribution。Is indistinguishable。

 computationally indistinguishable。F。Concateated was just completely uniform。

So I should put like prime。 I don't know， Lior。Maybe I'll right。Yeah， okay。This is independent this。

 Okay， completely uniform， independent of the use of。 So this is just one， one uniform book。Okay。

 so basically， again， a hardcore predicate。Is a predicate that squeezes all the hardness。

Out of the p。呀。Yeah， it's a hardcore predicate。 Oh， sorry， sorry。 thank you4 x， sorry。嗯。

I forgot the front。 Thank you， yeah。Yeah， it's it's personal function。So， no， of course。

 effect is not one way。Then you can， this will never look funny P will never look uniform because you'll invert you and compute P P if onlycomputable。

But if F iss one way， then you cannot find the pre image。Anyway。

 to squeeze the pre image to kind of get a good uniform looking bit out it。

And P is a way that we take the pre image and kind of squeeze it into one bit of kind of pure uniformity。

Of course， not pure uniformly， because。It's computational。 So computationally。

 it looks like a pure uniform。So this is the notion of a hardcore predicate。Now。

 if we have a hardcore predicate。We have a票据。So we'll go back。 Do we have a hardcore predi。

 It's a great question。 But let me first say。So。So， claim。嗯。🤢，Has。A hardcore predicate。P。

This is hired court predicate。There。Here's the construction。Then you can construct the G on x。

Equals what。Who would be our P G。Pa。Concatenated with。Exactly。This is our P G。If we had a hard。

 if our function， I had a hardcore predicate。Okay， now， why is this a pure G so that then G is。A。PRG。

Which indeed， expands by one bit。Like we wanted。So let's first prove that it's a PRG。

So why is it a PR so cool？Okay， so again， we have the efficiency in expanding is clear。

 It's efficient because F is efficient and P is efficient。And it is expanding by definition。

 and expands by one bit。So let's focus on thisrrendness。Okay， so。Why is it super。啊。Good。

 so we need to argue。That。You know， basically， this distribution and the uniform distribution。😊。

Are are indistinguishable。 But actually， let's go to next bit unpredictability。

 Instead of arguing that， let's prove that it's next bit unpredictable。

That's going to be helpful for us。So now， so why，s so fix。Apoli science aary。

And we need to argue that there exists neligible。So it's the adversary for any bit he's trying to predict。

He succeeds only with like neg advantage。 So， of course， he can guess a bit。

 but he can't do better than guessing。So why， why is the next Ipredic， Let's see。 So fix a。

Let me distinguish you in two ways。Case1， he trusted the last bit。

And case Louis tries to predict anything， except nonetheless。

So if he tries to predict not the last bit。Then I claim either it is all powerful。 You can't do that。

Because this is a real， the first lambmbda bit are really uniform。Truly uniform。Okay。

 there because it's it's it's permutation。Okay， so F for U， because F is a permutation。It's even it'。

 I don't care about the one way， actually。Just the fact that it' a presentation thick lambda bits。

 the lambda bits， and it's a bijection。 If you take random here， you're random here。

 So there's no way you can predict。Okay， so， so first， I want to say that for every La。

And for every eye。Up to lambda， not to last bit。I want to argue that the probability。That a。Given F。

You lambda。On the first。I guess I minus1 locations。Guesses。The next bit。On location I。

Its really only half。Theres is there's no negligible here， Okay， and it could be also all power。

This is really this is real uniform distributed condition on this。So there's nothing we can do， yeah。

Immediately， the same thing is uniform on。This is， this is。No， this is what I need to prove。 Oh， oh。

 yeah， yeah。Yeah， basically。 I mean， okay， I need to argue that P of Lambda is oh， wait。 Oh。

 I defined it this way。3日。I meanted the finding in a different way。嗯。One second。I want to make， yeah。

Sorry， I should look at my notes。 It's equivalent， but basically， I made it。 Okay， sorry。

Let me define it if。Soen， good catch， guys。 if the probability。If for any adversary。啊，按的。

I'm defined as not unpredictable basically。 So let me defined to say for any adversary， any polycis。

Adversary A， there exists and negligible。Mu。Such to that。The probability that a given F。Of you。

Output P。Or I can write also F of x output P of X。Where x is uniform。Is the most helpful。Sorry。

 the two actually turns out to be's it's a equivalent。 But yeah。

 let me define this way because that makes my proof。Stuc might feel better。O。

So this is the definition， because then I need to argue that I have a。Harful predicate。

 And then I want to use this。SoBut now， for now， if I have a hardcore predicate。Then I won。

 so this is my definition。 And now for pseudo randomness。

 the first on the basis is justinform theoretically。 And for the last bit。Let's argue next。

 So the last bit really just found so this。So， for。I being lambda plus one。

 We need to argue that the probability that a now is's giving the first lambda bit。

 So just he's given。The first time of bit is just。And the probability that he guesses that lambda plus 1 bit。

 which is。I is， of course。And most negligible。By it's just by definition。

Okay by the definition of aly predicate， yeah。 sorry again。No no。 So I O， good。 No， I。

 I want to prove that same thing。 So I want to prove I have a definition of a hardcore predicate。

Which I slightly modified the way I defined it。Okay。

 the the definition before is equivalent to this definition， But I want to use this definition。 Okay。

 and now I want to say just it。My one way of mutation。

I to have our predicate that satisfies this definition。Then my claim is that I have the PR G。

 I wanted。 and this is it。O。So the PRG just applies the one with permutation and then concatennate it with the hardcore predicate。

And now， why is it a PR G， The reason it's a PR G， Well。

 the fact that it's efficient just falls from the efficiency of S&P， the fact it's expanding is just。

 of course， it's trend by one bit。 that's by definition。And now to prove that it's pseudo random。

 I'm going to use the next unpredictability definition。And for the next， they onpredictability。

The reason you cannot predict the next bit。 Well， if it's not the last bit， the lambda plus1 bit。

 you cannot predict it just in theoretically by the fact that the first lambda bits is just dijection。

And for the last bit， the reason you cannot predict the last bit of the PR G。

Galings just by the fact half predicates， by definition， basically。Good。快十遍。One way from。

icAnd the hope。No， okay， so actually， PR G， you're right。

 but let more than PR Gs exist if one functions exist period。No， without additional。Now。

 I'm going to show you P G exists assuming one implementation period。

What I showed you so far is something weaker。I said， if you have a one position。Then you're like。

 wait， but what if I one conditions， it doesn't have a Harcore predicate。Then嘛。Good， fantastic。

So here's the beautiful thing。This is like unbelievable。Every one implementation。Every function。他是村长。

And this is Godda Levin's theorem。 So let me write it down。嗯。Right it here。

And that's what we're going to focus on for。The rest of today and also on Wednesday。

So here's the theorem。This is Si du for Godda。And I think 89 or something。Okay， let's hope。 if not。

 the lectures have the correct。And it says that actually， okay。

 so what it says is that basically every。One way， even function。 It doesn't need to be a feration。

 Okay， but in particular， a ferutation。Has a hardcore predicate。But it's not as simple as that。

Actually， we still don't know。😮，If is it true that everyone we function has like this a deterministic。

Harcore predicate， actually， it's a great open question。Okay。

 so is it the case that every one way function for any one way function Act， there's a deterministic。

 efficiently computable。Function P。Such that it's hardcore。

 like that's where all it kind of it expresss kind of the hard。Okay， it's a hardco predict。

We don't know。But here's what Godbin proved。 And that's enough for us。They proved that for every。

 So maybe Ill read this， for every one way function。Let me make sure I'm consistent with the。

Notutations in。OK， so。For any。One way function。The following predicate is a hardcore predicate。

And actually， it's the same how。Okay， so P。But， it's randomized。So P takes his input， X。And R。

And outputs just the inner product。Which is just to say， sum of X， I R I mod2。This。

Is a hardcore predicate。For any function。For any one way function。我怎么事。So let me exactly。

 So let me explain。 So P of X， it takes this input。对。Input to the one way function。But it also has。

 it's a randomized function。So， I don't know。Look， I would like to come up with a theorem and tell you。

Anyone we function has a hard for precate。 and this is it。呀。Good， great。 So you need to stretch。

 So okay， good， we'll get there。 great great question。

 So I'm giving you randomized hardcore predicate。 And now I get a lot of confused look like， wait。

 the entire problem is to generate randomness。 So what do you mean you're giving me a randomized hardcore predicate。

😊，So how am I going。 So now let me say， so that that's the theorem。 But now。

 let me tell you how what my PR G will look like， my PR G。Will take us input。And R。

 that that's kind of the randomness of the。 So it'll take us input two on the bits。

And it will stretch it by giving you F of。Random isn't the clear。

You were just up with the randomness。And。Will give you。Some of or I'll just x that are。

I want to argue that this is a P G。So this PR G takes its input，2 lamb B。

In stretch it to tulandnda plus one。我可以呀。呃一本。不看。So good。 Okay， so， so okay， there's two things。

 You can complain and say， wait， it only works。 And so you're saying， oh。

 you only gave me a PRP that。Gives me even to even plus one， like to add basically， right。 Okay。

 you right。 That's what I'm giving you。So if now you're saying if I want to go from odd to even。

 then just have here another。Another random bit。 And put here another random bit。Okay。So。O。And now。

 again， no。This is still So of course， it's expanding by definition。

 It takes2 lamb bits2 lambda plus one。And if it's really a hardcore。 now。

 here's what I'm going to argue。 when I mean by this is a hardcore predicate， what I mean。

 what I'm going to argue。 So namely， what does it mean that it's one， I want to say。

Maybe I'll write it in。Yeah， what I mean that this， this random thing is the Harcore Connectdicate。

 What I mean is for every。Poly signs。Adversary A， there exists。There exists a negligible function。

functionunction new。Such that。A takes an input F of x。And R。And he outputs x dot R。

The probability that he outputs。The probability。So he gets， it gets F of x and R。

 and the probability that he manages to output X dot R is at most have。To the。

That's what we mean by hardco。 that's what I mean by this is a hardcore predator。Okay。

 so you get that of x。 You get the randomness used for the Harcore predicate。

And now you need so basically， the half world prediicates， you can think of it。

 it's as familyly of predates。For every arm。I have a Harco predicate。hi are is good？

I know R are is good。Okay， so I don't know for each function。 Oh， give me this function。

 Use this R for this function， Use that。 I don't know。I don't know which are to give you。

I don't have an efficient way of kind of getting you the R。But I know a random amount would be good。

Okay， so that's the。第二。And this is disposal。道。donぞ。A big part。Yeah。

 exactly because maybe for one adversary， he can do this R for another adversary。 He can do that R。

 And so the only thing I can argue is that an adversary cannot do all ours like many arts， yeah。

Exactly。不少急。Okay， so that's the guarantee。 And， and now note， indeed， you know。

 the pseudo randomness exactly as before fall from the next bit unpredictability。

 where these are really uniformly random。 These are just distributed really uniformly in Tu Lambda。😊。

Completely random。So of course， you can predict the next bit it's just uniform。 And given this。

 the reason you can predict the next bit is just by the fact that it's hard core predator。

It's a randomized talk about。So now all I need to finish this PRD construction。

 All I need to prove to you is that everyone we function has a hardco creditdicate。啊。Ready。This is。

One of the most beautiful proofs in cryptography。 I say that about a lot of them， but they're really。

 oh， yeah。😊，我 can。Again， why can't we exor。啊，哼。😊，SoWhere does it fail So are you。

 are you proposing now a hardcore predicate construction。 Okay its what Harcore predicate。

 Harco input X。With what。Oh x are all the bits together。 And okay， Okay， good。 So the question is。

 why isn't the power in the high particledi， P of x， X ors all the bit of x。Okay。

 let me give you a one way。 Here's a one way function。

 My one way function on input X output the X or of all the bits。And something else。Still hard tover。

 The fact that you lose the X or， you got basically one hint。

1 bit hint doesn't make it all the sudden V10ver。So maybe the one function actually。Mix that。

So the thing is， the one function leak information about the input， but we don't know what it makes。

And it's very hard。To find what it is that's now leak。

 do we want to output something that for sure nothing about it is leak。what it is。你 don龙。Great。

 great question。 It means that your wheels are thinking， which is great。Any other questions。O。

 so how送。The remaining34 minutes I had。 And on Wednesday。

 we're going approve this hardcore predicate age。Con。And now the question is how， how would the。

 what would the proof look like。So。How much sports is going to be with VR reduction。

The finally respond。 We are reduction。 And what I'm going to show is that。

So give me a one way function。If you give me an adversary that are going to predict X star R。

 I'm going to invert。 I'm going to show you how to invert the function。Okay， so so again。

 we're going to do a reduction and here's how a reduction would what a reduction would look like。

I'm going。 we're going to say that。So okay， so fix。Our one way permut。 our one function。

 actually on the F。The one way perut was just needed for the PR G for the for Harcore predicate。

 it's one way function。 So give me any one way function at。And suppose。

That there exists an anniversarysary。Suppose there exist。Apoliized adversary。And the non negligible。

Epsilon， so to that， it actually can predict。that the。That a， given F of X。

And given R can actually predict。X到R。With probability， you know， half plus epsilon。

Suppose that's the case。Now， I want to argue if I have such an adversary then。

I'm going to show you that there exists。A poly science adversary。いい？That invers the when we function。

And。No negligible。他 delta。S to that。The probability that B an F of x。Invert it。

 I'll put something in。Inverse。It's at least Delta。That's what we're going to show。

If you have an adversary， that predicts。This inner product。Then I have an adversary that inver。他们会守的。

So we'll do it next time。 But I want to tell you the intuition。It's f of x。 suppose okay。

 the problem is that a is really not perfect。Suppose for a second that a was perfect。Okay。

 for any X in every R， it predicts XR。那。It's trivial to use that invert。I'm how will I do that？

I'm going give him R being E 1， like 1，0，00。 And hope I got the first bit of X。I give him 0，1，0，0。

 Oh， second。I applied1 times。 I get all the bits of math。Well done。So if I was perfect， no problem。

The entire poem that is enough。And so basically， we will need to use kind of to amplify and use kind of this non perfect。

A， there'll still be Aleton。And that way， we can only improve small probability and notverability 1。

 if I had a perfect a， we' hurt always。😊，But we have a non perfect day。

 So we'll in part only sometimes。Okay， so that's what we're going to see on Wednesday。

 how to do this。 And by the way， just we are going to use the proof heavily re and the turn off bound and the change of inequality。

 So please， if you hadn't， if you haven't read the notes and probability theory。

Prere and probability that you need。 Now is a good time to do that before one。It's all then。

