# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p17 6.5620 Lecture on 10⧸29⧸2025 (Wed).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p17-

不可以。We didnt start I already covered in chalk。 Okay， hi guys。

 so the plan for today is to kind of do the second part of the earth， I guess。

 a lecture on phillimorphic encryption where we started last time。😊。

So let me just recap the construction that we're looking at the encryption scheme that we're looking at and the goal what I'm going to try to show you today。

Is how you take a cipher textex， Let's say two cipher textex。

 encryptions encrypting 0 and encrypting1 or whatever encrypting B1 and B2 and how to take the Cypher textex and compute。

Cphert and encryption of B1 plus B2 plus addition Ma2 or and how to compute encryption of B1 times B2。

 Okay， so we'll see how to do both addition Ma2 and multiplication Ma 2。

 And if we can do both of these， we can do anything。 that's kind of the plan。

 But before I talk about homomorphism， let me first recap the construction and we're going to see the GSW construction。

AtThe construction due to genries to high in waters。And the construction process is followed。

 So the key generation is exactly the same。 It's re gave namely。

 you generate the public consists of a matrix A。😊，A is random in Zq M by N。

 and let me you should think of M。😡，As being bigger than unlock you。Okay。

 so I know 100 MQ or something like some big constant or something like that。😊。

So you choose a random matrix M by N matrix in Zq， you choose a random secret S in Zq to the N。😊。

You choose a random air vector E in chi to them。Ki is the air distribution。

 so we'll rely on LWE with parameters， QM， N and Air Chi。

And the public key is just going to be A and A plus noises。Okay， so under。

 so I'm going to call this matrix， oh。I wanted to call this matrix B。I had a plan to write B。Okay。

 so you output。Public key， I'll call this B， and B is the matrix that has the first N columns。😡。

Being A and the last column being a as plus norms。In each column is of LiedIn。Okay。

 so this is just one column。And the secret vector is basically S。 But for the sake of convenience。

 let me think of it as being minus S and1。 Okay， so the first n coordinates are just minus S。

 and the last coordinate is a1。 And the reason it's nice to think about it this way is because no that B times T。

😊，Is the air vector。And this is going to be kind of convenient。Okay。

 so that's why I'm thinking of this as teas the air vector test。Okay， questions about。

 about the key generation algorithm。So this is exactly the same as rea。Now， how do you encrypt？

So the encryption is also very similar to rega， but with a slight。To kindind of change。

And the changes。With re you the the aim。The ciphertext， you took one random vector to R。

You multiplied this public matrix B by one vector R to get a vector。

 and then you add to to it the message and times like 0，0，0 Q over2， some gadget vector。Here。

 one vector is not going to be enough to do homomorphism。 Instead， I'm going to have many rows。

How many rows it's going to be big N where big N is。Log queue。😮，P10 plus one。

 the ceiling of log and and plus one times the ceiling of lock U。

 And we'll see why this is the choice。So I'm going to choose， I'm going to choose a random matrix。

 a 0，1 matrix， where a random 01 matrix。And big N by M。I'm going to multiply。

The public key with this matrix。And I'm going to。The message， which is 01 binary message。

 times of gadget matrix， and we're going to see what this gadget matrix is。

 but it's just a fixed public matrix。Okay， so that's the encryption。And the decryption， the decrypt。

 what I'm going to do， I'm going to take my ciphert， which is now note the ciphert。

 we're going to denote the ciphert by C。😊，And note that t is in 01 to the n by n plus 1。😡，O。

 because B is n plus one。So now。I'm going to take my cipher text。

I'm going to multiply it by the secret key。And what do we get well。Let let me do it slower。 Sorry。

 So how that So this is how you decor。 So you take the Cypher text， which is R B。Plus， muji。Times C。

And now what do you get。RB times T， Well B times t is the error vector。

And when you multiply by R r is 01。So it's also something small compared to Q。

 Think of Q super polynomial。 Okay， think of n as security parameter M as like n squared or something。

 Okay， so it's n like n log Q but Q is smaller than two to the lambda So it can be like n squared。

 And think of again， think of  Qs being super polynomial。 Okay， so this is going to be polynomial。😊。

can so RB times t， so it's RB。Times t plus mu Gt。This is E。 So all this I can think of some E prime。

Something still small。 It's bigger by R it's kind of of the length of like big n times E。

But big intensity is also small。Okay， that's how I'm going to set my parameters。 Okay， because big N。

 it's。Pretty small compared to Q。😡，Okay， so I'm getting some error times muGT。

And then how do I decide to de that， Well， if I get something that all the coordinates are small。

Then。If mu 0， that's what I'm going to get。 So I'm going to output。0ero， it's an only if。

All the coordinates are small。And by small， I mean， let's say， you know， in like。

Minus Q over 4 plus Q over4。Often。And I'm going to choose G。😮，So that if mue is one。

 it's very unlikely that G times T all coordinates will be small。Okay， with over probability。

 some of them are going to be kind of in the Q over2 regime， yeah。Don we actually want Car？何にもれる。So。

 okay， I can。Okay， so if you want coordinate probabilityability1。

 So the question is for the recording， what about correctness。

 Because here like correct is holds probabilityability 1 minus Ne jubble。 And yesterday。

 I said you can get coordinate probabilityability 1。 So if you want coordinate probabilityability1。

 what you need to do is when you choose a random vector T。😊，Look at G times Street。

So how do you choose the public key？😮，Choose A and S。😮，Or before the accus random S。

 before you do choose random S， G is a public matrix。 It's fixed。 Okay。

 look at G times T T is just for S。It happens what with tangibleable probability that kind of all the coordinates are pretty small or far away from the cube to reject this one and try again。

And， and， and so with do this until like you get something that's good。

 And then you have curtain forty1。 Okay， so it's to get curtain forty 1。

 you'll end up with kind of a you'll need to get the key generation algorithm to work in。

 in polynomial time and expected polynomial time。 So it's。

 but but it's going to be with overwhelming probability。 It's gonna be some fixed polynoial time。😊。

Okay， great。 So this is the construction。 That's just a recap。 Any questions about the construction。

😊，I like questions。 So if anybody has one， that would be great。Construction is clear。 You're good。

Okay， great。 Okay， So what's the idea behind this construction， What。

 let me recap also the intuition。 What is the intuition， So the intuition is。That。You know。

 the sign for T C。Satisize the property。 Well， if mu is 0。Then， basically， you can think of。

Let's think of the error as like zero， okay， of course there is not zero。

 but if the error was zero for a second。Then。T is almost like a eigenvector of C。

Why is it almost It's not really an eigenvector。 First of all。

 how C be an eigenvector of C C is not even a squared matrix。So it doesn't really make sense。

 but think of it the following。See。So when you do c times T， you get new times almost T。

 this is not quite T because theres as I said， the dimensions， you can have it BT。G times T。

 you can think of it as some encoding of T。Okay， so then you have C times T is mu times。

It's an encoding of T。 It's almost like an eigenvector。Now， if it was an eigenvector。Well， of course。

 if it was an eigenvector would't be secure。 but if it was an eigenvector。

 then we would have perfect homomorphism。And that's kind of what we showed last time。

 If we were able to say that the secret key is actually an eigenvector of C。Of the Cypher tax。Well。

 everything would be broken because it's easy to compute eigenvectors。 So that's no good。

 But at least you would get homomorphisms。 You' would be able to get addition homomorphic addition and multiplication。

So what we do， we say， well， it is kind of an eigenvector， a noisy eigenvector。😡，2 things。

 A's noise indeeds。 This is not quite tea。You know， some encoding of tea。

But because it's still kind of almost an eigenvector， we're able to do homomorphism。

 That's kind of the point。 So let's， let's do the homomorphism， okay。

So now I need to give you the Eval function， if you remember。

 homomorphic encryption has an eval function。😊，So， the event function。

It takes as input either additional multiplication will do both and two ciphert。😊。

And it should output the cipher text that is encrypting a message。

 which is the addition of the two messages encrypted in C1 and C2。So what would Eval be in this case？

Any guesses？Exactly， C1 plus C2。So this is going to be bad。That's it。 Pre simple。

 Let's see why it works。 So let's see what is C1 plus E2 well。C1 is of the form。😮，A S sorry。Sorry。

 R1 B。Thank you plus mu1 G， let's say this encrypts a message mu1。

 so this is what the cipher text looks like。😊，This is C1。And C2 is our 2 B。Plus， mu2 G。

Which is exactly。R 1 plus R 2。Times B。Plus。M 1 plus mu 2。Z。Okay， so let me call this R plus。B plus。

 okay， exactly like you want mu 1 plus mu 2。FG。Yeah。あす。题。Exactly。Great question。

 Really not a dumb question。 So， first of all， what you're saying is， well， it kind of works。

 but this is not addition not2。 This gives you addition not Q。😊，Yeah， this is addition not。So。

 this is Monq。Now you can say， you can complain and say， wait， but that's no good。

 I promise additionalplication not too。😡，But it's almost good。 Why。

 because soon I'm going to do eval of multiplication。Once I have a variable of multiplication。

 let's say we did it already then。We can do evolveval。Of plus my two。Of C1 and C2。B， evil。Sorry。B。

 Evan。Of addition， not Q。Which we did up there。Up C1 and C2。Minus。😮，The valve。Of multiplication。

Of C1， C2。And why is this what we want？I claim this will give you vma， too， why。

Because assuming application is good。 I didn't know how to do it。 But let's say you know。

 there is a way to do it。Then。And if one of them is 0， either C1 or C2 is 0。Then the multiate， sorry。

 if either view one or you two， if the messages encrypted here or here are0。被。Oh， yes， thank you。Yes。

Then the message here is zero。And so you basically encrypt。 it's just an encryption of 0。 Okay。

 even with  two。 So you minus e， minus e value， subtract encryption of 0 doesn't do anything。

On the other hand， if both of them are one。And and you shouldn't subtract everything because 0 plus one is just one。

 even not Q。 So you don't subtract and you shouldn't subtract。

The only thing we need to correct is that both of these are one。 If both of these are one， we。

 we want to get encryption of 0， and we get encryption of 2。But if both of these are one。

This will give you one。So we subtract encryption of one twice。 So we get encryption of 0。

 like we want。Or another way to say it is addition mod Q and multiplication mod 2 is complete。😡。

Once you have these two， you can do everything else。Okay， so I showed you addition mark Q。

But if you have addition mod  Q and multiplication mod 2， you can get everything。

 in particular you can have you can get addition mod 2。Okay， great。Any other questions？

So one thing that I want to point out is that。It's， you know， it is。 It does look like a ciphertex。

 like encryption of mu1 plus mu 2。But not quite， It's not really like a fresh site for text。

Because if it was the first Cyphertex of mu1 plus mu2， even mod Q。

Here I would have the R would be a matrix in 01。With coordinates， with elements in 01。

But this R has elements of 01，2。So is that okay？Well， let's see what happens when we decrypt。

 What happens when we decrypt a matrix with element 0，1 and 2。When we decrypt now。

This air becomes a little bigger。So we have a factor of two blow up in the air。

 because now we charge our twice。So the air can grow twice。😡，Okay， so that's kind of an issue for us。

 So because， so there's a price。 you know， I said。If the secret key was an eigenvector。We get。

 we get all the the completeness properties we want。

 We would be able to get homomorphism all the way， and everything would be perfect。😊，But not secure。

The way we make it secure is by adding noise。But this noise comes at a price。

And the prices is that this noise will grow as we do homomorphisms。And so at some point。

 if we continue and continue to do homomorphism， it may get too big。

So I will need to be careful and cracked。 but for now。Let's just kind of keep it in our head。

 Then when we do additions， basically the noise grows by a factor。Almost。ok。Any questions。Okay。

 so let's see multiplication then。one second， I had some terminology that I wanted。 Okay。

 so one terminology I want to say is I'm going to say that I'm going to call this when we take cryptto Cypherax C。

Encrypting a message you。What I'm going to get。Is the mute。

Times the this encoding of of the secret key or mu times this G T plus noise。

I I'm going to call this the decryption invariant。And what I want to show。Is。

Even as I do homomorphic computations， this decryption invariance still holds。

But with possibly bigger error。Okay， so originally the error was like， if originally mu。So if Namu。

 if originally chii， let's say it was between minus sigma and sigma， all the coordinates。

So now for fresh ciphert。😮，This is going to be between minus n， sorry， minus n sigma and N sigma。

Because each error here， kind of I'm adding big n of them。Because of the dimension of R。So。

 so this is for a fresh sitephertex。 When I， when I try to decrypt the fresh sitephertex。

 this is gonna be there。When I try to decrypt。😮，A ciphert。That was fresh。

 but now I did one addition to it。So I took， took two first separatetext。 I added。

 and then I decrypt。I get here， this is going to be。I okay， so now when I decrypt。😊。

When we try to decrypt。We're going to get this basically。This error。😮，So let me call some air。Plus。

Mu 1 plus mu 2。😡，GT， where this error is now minus 2 n sigma2 n sigma。So it grew。ok。

Now let's see what happens or okay。And more generally， if we add to cphertex that had some error。

 E1 and E2， the total now it's going to be e1 plus E2， so the error just grows by yeah。😡。

So since that stillうな。Eventually， when we switch to mind2， it's going to be。Lger。Okay， you're right。

 So good。 Yes， when eventually youll read Duma2， you're going to have the air from here and the air from here。

 You're right， exactly。Indeed， it will grow。 I didn't tell you how they are and mal grows。

 It's even worse。 And so Mato will grow worse， yes。没 want。Do we need to keep track of。Yes， good。

 So when we want to use this scheme in practice or in theory。

 when we want to use it you know in our when we write papers， when we use this encryption scheme。

 we need to be careful because if we do too much homomorphic computations and we're not careful with Q and with the amount of computations we do。

Then eventually， the error is gonna to be so large that we're going to get the decryption will fail because it's going to be so large that it will be like it look like Q over 2。

 And then we'll say decryption of one， even though it should have been decryption of 0。Yeah， so well。

 we'll we'll manage that。 We'll see how much the air growth。

 And then once the error is going to be too much， we'll need to kind of。

Rereed the cyber text somehow， and we'll see how to do that。 For now， I'm just keeping track。 Okay。

 yeah。他维持那个。Good， so1，1， okay， so there is a tension。 So the question is， how do we set like the chi。

 you know， the， the air， Like what is the sigma that we choose。So。If we didn't do any homomorphism。

 we would then I say take sigma to be pretty big， like I don't know， Q over， you know。

 Q over a constant and things will be good。 But if you take sigma to be so big。

 you don't have room for homomorphism for the air to grow。So now how do we set sigma。So the thing is。

 you can set sigma to be like security parameter。 Okay， pollen security parametermeter， like n。

And said cute to be like two then。And then you have a lot of room to grow。But the thing is。

 the smaller sigma is compared to Q， the stronger the assumption is。

So really kind of the assumption that how secure we believe it is。

Can it depend on the ratio between sigma and Q。So we want to set sigma the biggest we can that it will kind of achieve the。

 So we'll have room for the amount of homomorphism we want， but not more， because if it's more。

 we're just making stronger assumptions for no reason。So we'll see how to set it up once we。

 we'll see how much once we kind of see how much homomorphism we want to do。 But for now。

 it's a parameter。Great， any other question。Okay， so let's do， let's do the event。Of mo。Of C1 and C2。

Okay， now。If just if you remember correctly， let me put it kind of an aside here。I said。

 if C1 and C2。Were square matrices。 And T， the secret key was like you can think of it as an eigenvector without noise。

😊，Then the way you do malt will be just to take so in that kind of in the ideal scenario。

 you'll do evolveval。Of mo。With C1C2。To just PC C1 C2。If this is kind of an ideal。Of course。

 we can't multiply C C2。 It doesn't even make sense intactically。 they're not square matrices。

But in the ideal case where there is no security， but there is square me to see and the secret key is an eigenvector。

Then this would be it and why is it the right thing because then youll have when you multiply by T because when you decrypt。

😡，And you multiply by T。Then what you would get is。C1 times this will just be mu2 times t。

Because it's an eigen vector with the message being eigenvalue。

 if there was no noise and it was kind of perfect。Which is mu 2 times c1 times t。

 which is mu2 me 1 times t and voa。So， we really。Multiply these hyperphertex。

And get what we want and somehow deal with the noise。So now there's two things， A， we can't do that。

 Stactically doesn't work。But even if we manage to multiply the way that syntactically works。

 there's still a problem because in our world， you don't get this。

 You get it kind of with some noise。For grab， you don't even get T， you get G。

 like it's an encoding of T because of the parameter because they're not squared matrices。

But putting the square aside， the fact that we have noise is a big problem， because then。

When you multiply C1 by the noise， everything goes crazy。😡。

So it doesn't work like it seems like when you multiply。

 it doesn't work because the noise multiplies。With C1 and C 1 is look looks like a random matrix。

 So we're doomed。Okay， so again， when we add cybertext。

 somehow the noise behave nicely because we add the noise。But we want to try to multi Cyphertax。

 multiply Cyphert。Then we need to correct this ideal thing。And it seems like。

 how can we correct it so that the noise will multiply。Yeah。Exactly。

So what's the idea that precisely it， The idea is。Make the entries of C1 small。 if the entries of C1。

We're also， let's say 01。 then it's no problem that it will grow， but you know， not by much。

So it's okay。But， of course。The Cyphertex is not0，1。So the way we do it is we take。

 so here's the idea what we do。Instead of multiplying C1 times C2。

 which also makes no sense because of the， because of the dimensions， we multiply some。

Of C1 times C2。What is H of C1， H of C 1。 So first note that the ciphert C is in 01 to the n times n plus1。

 This is going to be。In Zq to the N by N。First of all。So now it makes sense。 Okay。

 you can multiply at least because this。Is in ZQ。N by n plus one。So at least it makes sense。

 The multiplication synactally makes sense。But moreover this age。😊。

Is going to be kind of the binary decomposition。Of the matrix C。 So let me explain what this。

 what I mean by binary decomposition。Think of H first。

 Let me tell you how it behaves just as a function from ZQ。Lls go from z cube to 01 to the log Q。

And it just does the binary decomposition。 Okay， so it takes some X。It takes x in Zq。This bit is B0。

Up to B log Q。-1， that's kind of a binary decomposition。And that's what it outputs。So in other words。

 think of x as being sum of two of sorry， B2 to the I。I goes from 0 to long Q。

Just write it in its binary decomposition。And then the output is just these bits。So H of x。

It's just going to be B0。Up to B， lock you。That's it。And now so that's for one element。

And how do you do for entire matrix？Each gentleman you just kind of expand its binary decomposition。

So， basically， this。Is。If you if you think of this circuit as having like C11， c12 and so on。

 it's going to be。H of C11。Up to H of C1。I guess， n plus one。N plus one。And so on and so forth。

So I made the number of columns grow by log Q。😡，Sorry， this is -1。By the ceiling of block U。

 So now it's really a squared matrix。Okay， so this is， this is how theyve done。

 So it's really almost no complication。I just corrected the dimension， and made。This matrix， binary。

Yes what。Why does this work， Great question， Let's see。 Why does this work？

Let's try to see why it works or if it worked， you know me maybe I'll do it here。Okay。So what is H？

Op C1 times C2。😡，What happened when you decrypt。And I'm hoping。

To get like something like this where mu is mu one times mu to。

So I'm mo to get like the decryption andvariant that I want。So， let's see。This is equal to。H of C1。

C2 should satisfy the decryption invariant。 So it's times whatever the error here。

 let me call it E prime。Plus U GT。😡，Which is what， which is。😮，This time this， it's another matrix。

 It's another error。 This is small。 It's binary。 This is error。 So it's some error。

It grows by a factor of big N。Because exactly as before， right。

 we have here n elements with some the up so it grows by factor of big n。Plus。M times H。C1 G times t。

Now， okay， so what is this？The idea is this seemss weird。

But we're going to choose G so that this is exactly C1。That's how we choose G。

And also I'll tell exactly how this is done， it's very easy， but once you choose G2 BC C1。

 then we're done， then you have the error mu。😊，C1 times T again satisfies another error。

 I don't know。 another error times。Plus。哎。Another air plus， sorry。A mu， this is mu 2， sorry。

 this is mu 。 This is the encryption of C2 mu 2 times mu 1。GT。This is small。And we got。

Exactly mu and times mu2 times GT。Okay， so again， let me go through it again so。

I wouldt argue that this matrix， when I multiply by IT， I get error。Plus， mu 1， mu2 times this GT。😡。

Okay， and that's good。 because then if this is 0， I get small and if this is1， I get something large。

 That's kind of what the G T tells me。Okay， so why， why is that？ And I'm thinking what G T doesn't。

 But I didn't tell you what G is。 So I'll tell you what G is。

 And then you'll see why that's the case。 Okay， so why， what happens when I multiply by T。 Well。

 when I multiply C2 times T by the decionvari， I get some error and U too。

 which is whats thepher the message that C2 encrypt time G T that by my assumption。

Which is so what is in all these times， H of C1， H of C one times error is another error。Plus。😮。

H of C1 times this。😡，What is H of C1 times this， Let me put you to a side H of C1 times this matrix。

Time this vector T。Now I'm going to choose G so that H C1 times G is identity。 It's like a。

 it' C1 again。So H is the bit decomposition。 G will be the bit recomposition。O。

 I'll tell you how it's defined， but basically H kind of does the bit decomposition of C of C1 and G is going to put it back together。

😡，So you get back C1。And now C1 times T， I know it satisfiedfi the decryption invariant。

So it's some air it's going to be eaten here plus。Mu one times G T， So I get mu one times G T。

 And this is exactly what I wanted。Good。Okay， so now the question is， what is G？So what G would be。

 you know how H just kind of H took an element， took every element X and kind of converted it to its big decomposition。

Whatji would do？😮，Is it will kind of put it back as x and the way we'll put it back。

 it will multiply it。😡，By one， two， up to two， log Q plus1。😡，W you， sorry， -1， sorry。Okay。

 so here take I took an element X。 I converted it to the bit decomposition。

And now I want to multiply it by this to get back X。So as a matrix， what it would look like。

It's like。The identity matrix where every one you would be replaced by。1，2， up to two log Q。min-1。1。

2。To log Q。-1。So this is the matrix where the number， so this matrix is going to be n。

Big N by n plus one。So this was originally an n plus one。By N plus 1， identity matrix。But now。

And the diagonal， I converted any kind of one to this。Lg queue。Vectctor。

So now it's dimension n plus 1 times log Q， which is begin。😡，This is my G。

And now it's pretty easy to note。😮，So first of all， this is my G。

And now I just want to note that if I have a circuit， if I take H of some circuit C。😊。

And multiply by G。I immediately get back my seat because what's going on here。I took every C。

 and I kind of encoded it with a binary。And when I multipied it with this vector。

 I'm going to get that， basically the element。Yeah。可以。It should be。2 plus。You're right，100%。 Yes。

 okay， let me put it like another prime， right。Yeah， exactly。 Yes， yes， totally。

 And what was your other。Oh， okay， yeah， indeed。 you're right。 I was floloppy。 Yes， good。 Thank you。

 yes。嗯。Because the error。T you to。H1 times g。Essentially， or like c1 times T， essentially。C。

1 times T， indeed， right， exactly， exactly。Yes， yeah。 So C1 times T me gives me another error。

 I call it this。I think the C times T is Oh， sorry， it's this。 Yes， sorry。 this is the。 Yeah。

 this is the air。Okay， so okay， let me I'm gonna call them all these。 All these are different。 Okay。

 I I got confused with the because I don't have enough okay， you can1， you can， if you call this E 2。

 maybe I'll be careful。 So if this is E2。 then here I have some E3， because it's this time to this。

 So this is gonna be something like big n times E 2 like。Began times the。I don't know。

 I called Sigma 2。 This is kind of how much error is in E2。 So it's times n。 This is from here。

 And now， okay， so this was this E 3。And here I have error from c1 times t。Times mu。

 So this is just kind of this， I guess we can call it E1。 And this is in kind of just sigma 1。Okay。

 sorry。 Yeah， I was。Getting excited with the ideas。 But I， I kind of gloss over all the parameters。

 But yeah， one needs to be careful。 So we'll now soon go over the parameters carefully。 But any。

 yeah， question， Oh， any questions about kind of before we see how much。 So now， of course。

 the question that we're gonna talk about next is， okay， so clearly， there's air growth everywhere。

 So how much can we do。😊，And in what sense is it fully homomorphic， I mean， clearly。

 it's not fully because eventually we'll have to mature。

So next thing we're going to do is we're going to budget the errors and then see how we can kind of。

Never so。So what we're going to see next is we're going to budget there and we're going to see。

 even though theres grow and grows and grow and grows。

So it seems like there is no way we're going to get fully homomorph encryption because the air just grows。

Still， what I'm going show you is we can get fully homomorph encryption by a beautiful technique called boostting。

 or， we're gonna， we're gonna or bootstrapping。 And we're gonna see that next。 But before that， yeah。

😊，気持ちいる。Additional not to double。Even worse。Okay。Times N， exactly。 You should think of the error。So。

 yeah， so addition mod Q just double。You know， it's Air plus air。As you said， like addition mod 2 is。

Is like multiplication or right And So really， the problem of the multiplication。

 the error growth in multiplication is more than times2。Is times big and y。 So let's。

 let's carefully look at what happens when we multiply two cphert。

Where the errorss of the two ciphert， let me call it like it's between Sigma 1 and Sigma 2。 I。

 I want to say something between Sigma because maybe there are already encryptions of something。

 So maybe they have more air。Okay， so maybe the error there is between kind of sigma 1。

The first Iphertax， so maybe C1。😮，Has like error between minus sigma 1 and sigma 1。😡，And C2。

Has error between minus sigma 2 and Sigma 2。O， because they may not be fresh hypertex。

 If theyre fresh， they're both between minus sig and sigma。

But suppose the between Sigma 1 and sigma 2 are the errors。 Now， what happens when we multiply them。

So， let's see。So， we have81 times。The error of C2， which is E2 E2， is like。

 you know it's between minus sigma 2 and sigma 2。Maybe I should put it in different color。O。

Now what happens？Okay， now we take this and multiply by this。 Now it's between minus n and。Sorry。

 minus n sigma 2。An N sigma too。Because this。Has dimension big N。Yes。

ItJust trying to clarify with the the shape of the H matrix。 It's N by N。

 but it's not entirely filled， right， It should be like diagonally filled。I sorry， role actors。

Right top so it's okay， so the， yeah， extremely like large。T日的。It's oh， log， you're saying， sorry。

 is your complaint about the dimensions or about the air？directions。Oh。Okay， so let's。Oh。

 you're saying you can be better。 You're saying I'm sloy。 It's tighter。 Is that what you're saying。

A little bit tighter。 You're right。 You're saying maybe it's more like small N a。

You're saying maybe I can get something like up to like maybe end time sigma 2 or something like that。

Im mean sloppy， but it doesn't matter because up to polynoial factors。 So let me kind of be。

 I'm just going to be， I'm going。You can make it tighter。

 but let me not work on like making things as best as possible。 Okay， because it will。

 it will shape some factors， but not enough to。To make it anything any simpler。

 let me put it this way。Okay。Okay okay great so this is so this is this error plus we have here right and this is just C C1 no error。

 so now we have mu 2 times C1 t。Which is。Some error。 And this is just。AActually， this is E1。

 the error of E1， which is between minus sigma 1 and sigma 1。I'm supposed to do it in color。Plus。

 this。So overall， I have a noise， which is kind of。Yeah。Or did I to eat one at the front。

 So if you switch it with the other one。 Oh， sigma1 and one sorry， I messed up。 Okay， hold on。

Right now， so。But the E3 is actually the middle。You're right。 Okay， yeah， good。 Thank you。 Thank you。

 Thank you。Yes， this is the E3， sorry， so this is the E3 which is exactly as before。

 sorry I changed the order you're right， sorry about that。😊，And this is a。The mu2 times the error。

 So this is between minus sigma 1 and sigma 1。And this。Good， thank you。 Thanks a lot。 Great。

 you guys。 You're helpful。 Okay， so the air basically grows。😊，By a factor of big n times one of them。

And the one you just add。Okay。What does that mean。That means every time we do multiplication。

The error grows by factor again。Basically。So we have factor n， and then we do again another factor n。

And then we do again， another factor of that。So。So， and what's important is basically。How， okay， so。

😮，Here's the thing。 If we only had addition mod Q for a second， if we only had addition Ma Q。

It's fine because every time the air we add there， add there， add there。But if we take you so big。

Like， exponential。And the sigma is polynomial。😡，In okay， so we add polyial， many things。

 it's polyial。 It's still far from Q。😡，The problem is。

 is the multiplication and not just how many multiplications like the layers of multiplication。😊。

So now let's say we want to do an arbitrary computation。

 Let's write the computation is a circuit consisting of additional notplication gates。So。

 here's my circuit。We first have like some gates。Here the cphertex。

 the noise is going to grow by factor n。 So if here， the noise was sigma。

 like between minus sigma and sigma。Here， the noises roughly between minus n sigma and n sigma。Now。

 if we multiply these。😡，If we take these and now multiply。Now we get a factor of n。

 so it's going to be minus n squared sigma。And n squared Sigma。Because it grows by factor of n。Now。

 if we only add， it's fine because if you add things， that's okay。 But what if you multiply again？😡。

Then you get minus n to the third sigma n to the third sigma。

So my point is if you want to get a circuit of depth like Lambda or log Q， you're doomed。

Because after a long queue， you're going to be。Like basically enter the long queue。

 it's bigger than Q。😡，So you're full of air。So you can do it much less than LockQ。Okay。

 but I want general circuits。 that's not general for me， yeah。老。个是被。Okay。

 so you can do it so that n to the D needs to be much smaller than Q。That's what I meant。 Okay。

 the is pretty small。I want arbitrary circuits。So now what do I do。Okay。

 so first before questions up to here。So first， what I want to， hopefully。

 you're convinced by now is that you can do kind of a lot of any circuit as long as the debt。

I's not too big。But once the depth。Becomes kind of closer to Q We're in trouble。

 So N to the D needs to be much smaller than Q。Now what I'm going to show you next after the break。

Is how to get arbitrary done。But I wanted to slightly strengthen my assumption。O。

 from LWE to a slightly stronger assumption called circular or secure LWE。

So let's take a couple minute break， and then we'll do the rest after the break。这等一次。

Minus m sigma M sigma。I might be wrong I like。Okay， so。

What I want to show you now is how to take a very noisy Cypherax and reduce the noise。Okay。

 and this is an idea from Gentry's original work。It's actually a brilliant idea。

 Really brilliant and beautiful。😊，Okay， so let's think together。How would we lower the the noise。

Okay， it's exactly it。 Okay， so here's his idea。 He said， wow。Let's say we you know I give you guys。

 I have a public key， you have a noise， you compute compute then you're like， oh。

 sorry I can't compute anymore， my noise level became too big because my depth was D and N to the D is starting to get big oh wait sorry one second。

😡，Someone corrected me in the break。The original side per R is dimension n by M。 So this is M。

 Later it multiplies by n because H of c1 is big n。 but the first one is times M。

 Now it doesn't really matter because M and N are kind of the same size。

 but just I want to correct that error， sorry。Okay， so again， going back。What is the idea。

 So I gave you a public key。 I gave you some Cytex。

 You started doing homoic computation and my Cyphertex。 The air grow， grow， grow， grow grows。 Now。

 you come tell me， oh， I can't do anymore。 My air is too big because my debt is pretty big。Now。

 what I can do is tell you， oh no worries， here's my secret key， so I can give you。

 here's my secret key。I guess I didn't choose back and top。 Here's my secret key。

Please decrypt and reencry in how your error will be fine。Now， yeah。

 the air just be encrypted and you'll have noise level sigma， which is great。 But obviously。

 it's a terrible idea because I just gave you my secret key。So you would just get to with everything。

That's a terrible idea。So what is his idea。He said， you know what。

 I'm going to give you an encryption of my secret key。So what his proposal is。

 I'm going to give you an encryption。Of the secret key。Now， what is it the function。

 the circuit that you're going to compute？You're going to compute the circuit。

That you want to compute。Is the circuit that has your very noisy ciphertext hardwi。

 Think of the circuit。 It's a circuit that has kind of the ciphertex。

 the noisy That's pretty high hardwi。Input。But encrypted because it's going to be homomorphic。

And it outputs。As basically， the decryption。Of tea。With secret Kity of the Cypher taxi。Now。

 you can say， wait， but this already had more noise。 Now you need more and more noise。 This is awful。

Like when I decrypt， if I do this computation homomorphically。

I'm just going to get more and more noise in this。So it seems like a very bad idea。However。Turns out。

That this decryption。Function。That we have here， it's a very simple function。This function。

 what does it do。The Cyphertex， which is a matrix。He just multiplies it。You just multiply it。

By a vector。That's basically a depth。To computation。 It's very， or I guess if you do mod。

 if you take in degree 2， it's a log depth computation。But's basically。

 you just multiply and then add everything mod Q。 So it's very， it's。

There's very little overhead of noise to this computation。But then there's another thing which is。

 you need to kind of check。If each coordinate is small or big。

Turns out I'm not going to prove it to you， but it turns out that the decryption circuit。

 So this circuit this。This circuit， let me call this。So we call it decrypt subsea。

 it takes it input T and outputs the decryption。This circuit。Has depth？Like order login。So， low debt。

Now， why is it nice because。Notice you can take cu。😮，Said that big end to the。If you think of this。

As the death， you can take cues of that big N。So the power of D is much more than  Q。😡，For example。

 you can take Q to B2 to the end of epsilon。Now， what I can do。 So now with that， what is their idea。

 How will you do homomorphic encryption。So basically， Gentry's idea is the thousand。He says， oh。

 don't do homomorphic homomorphic homomorphic until you're out of space because then there's nothing you can do。

So basically， Gen's idea is。😮，The following。You do a little bit of homeworkmorph for computations。

And then apply the circuit to reduce the noise。And then do a little bit of homework computations。😊。

And then apply the circuit to reduce the noise。And so on。 So here's the point， notice。

It doesn't matter after you do。After you do the homomorph for computation。😊，The circuit， so。就。

For any for any ciphertex。C。After you do this homomorphic computation， so after you do E。

With the circuit。With the circuit， which is decrypt。Subsidepher text。

 That's the circuits input put T and outputs the message。When you apply this to some Cyphertext。

 Cyphertext one of the Cyphertex。Well， I guess。T is in。 Well， we encrypt bit by bit。 Okay。

 let me call it L。L is just the bit decomposition of T。 Okay， it's bit by bit。

Then you get back a ciphertext。So I I guess okay， sorrypher text。And this ciphertex。The noise it has。

Is basically thisciphert is with noise。Could I put it here？Enter the D。 So with noise。And。2长。Order。

 login。It doesn't matter what's here。😡，If the nois here was too big。Then theciphertext may be wrong。

😡，I may say one， even though the answer are zero， but the noise here is always small。😡。

Where by small， I mean this， this is the noise。 This is kind of the sigma。Okay， again。

 this is kind of the important point。 His important point are observations as follows。 The look。

This is， by the way， you think of this as encryption。Up see one。Enccryption of T L， where。

T1 up to TL is the B decomposition of the。 this is a bit。Decomposition。Of the secret Kiti。

So his observation is the following。 He says， look these。And cpherts are with fresh noise。Okay。

 so basically， I， you， I want you to encrypt a lot of things for me。

 like to do very deep homomorphic computations。What I'm going to do， I'm going to give you。

Encccroptions of the bits of my secret key。The noise I'm going to encrypt these with is sigma。

That we start with。So these cipherts are not noisy。Is a cipher text that you computed。

 which may be very noisy。But now。What am I telling you to do。

 And then you compute the following computation homomorphically， The input are the fresh side vertex。

This circuit， it has some sea in it。And it should dec crytic see under the hood。This。

Circuit has depth D， which is log n。😡，Okay， yeah。 this has D， which is sorry， This is the no。

 It's fine。This has a circuit of depth， and the。Log n， basically。So the noise。😮，2。Has depth login。

This circuit has the depth。So the debt。Of the circuit。2。

This descriptionption circuit is log n doesn't matter what C is。

So when you do this homomorphic evaluation， you'll get a ciphertex with noise loveb of this。pen。

How noisy she one？Now， what can happen？C has too much noise。

And then you even add add add noise and try to decrypt， you'll get something wrong。😡，Correct。

 this won't hold。But the noise is going to be small regardless。Yeah。O， O， O。

So what I didn't tell you yet is， wait， encryption with respect to which key。O。

 I told you encrypt this bit。 You can say which case should I used to encrypt this bit。Okay。And okay。

 so okay， one way to do this。Is to say， oh， encryptp this under the secret keyt。So whatever。

 you know， whatever you。 So these are encrypted with the same SQL key。And at the end。

 you're going to get a ciphertex with respect to this key， the key that you use to encrypt these。

So these cipherts are encrypted with some key。😊，At the end here。

 you'll get a ciphertex encrypted with these keys。Because when we do homomorphic computation with ciphert。

 correspondence in public key or secret public keys， you get back。😡，Side protection was that key。Ok。

 again， you， you can forget that this is a Cyphertex。 I'm doing here some homework of a computation。

S put tea output bit。If the input is an encryption of T under some public key。

 the output is the encryption of the bit under that public key。Okay again。

 let me repeat it because I see these kind of，h， okay？I just want to note。

The output you get here is an encryption swept to one key。 it's not double encrypted。

And the reason why it's only with 1 k Na double encrypted is just note if if you do this in the clear and you output the input as some secret key T。

 the output is a bit。😡，The decryption bit。Now， if the input is an encryption of T。

 the output is the encryption of the bit under that key that you encrypt T with。😡，Okay， so。

How encrypted see， I don't care。So what's important to me is that this T for correctness。

 I need this T to be the secreter key correspondsine to C。😮，Otherwise。

 I try to decrypt that because It's meaningless。 but this is more correctness。What I get is a bit。

Is an encrypted bit corresponding to the key I use here regardless。😡，Now there is a question。

 which key should I use here？😡，So now， if I want to do a fully amorphic encryption， the public key。

Will be be。And the encryption of these Ts， which you'll need to kind of refresh your sphertex。

But when I say encryption of the bit of the bit， T1 up to Tl。Under which key？So one option。😮。

Is under the same key。B with T1。Up to encryption of B。我跳。Now。

 what's good about this is that youre when you finish， like when you decrypt。

 you get acipher textex with the same public keyb。😡，You didn't change the keys。So okay。

 so now if I give you this， let me tell you exactly what you should do。Okay。

I give you a first eyepher text。Do one computation， and then refresh。To get the noise level down。

 let me call the sigma star。So you do one home of a computation and then decrypt under the hood to get the noise down to sigma star。

Then do another。Computation and decrypt to get the noise back to Sigma star。

Then to another one and decrypttic get the noise down to sitma star。And if you do that。

 you never need Q to be much bigger than Sigma star。😡，Now， of course， you want to be practical。

 You don't want to do this bootstping every step。 But now it's a matter of efficiency versus your security。

Okay， because again， the bigger sigma is the more。Kind of， we believe the assumption is better。But。

 of course， you also want to be efficient。 So that's more of kind of a practical consideration。

 How much do you need efficiency versus kind of how， how a。Aggressive。

 you want to be with your assumption。Yeah， you share cry。Seecretty across multiple literature。Good。

 okay， okay。 So now the question， can you。 Okay， So one so the question is。

 can I share the say the the same。So what kind of bootstrapping key should I use？Okay。

 let me so one option。I encrypt。My secret key with my public key。😮，Then there's no issue。 I I finish。

 I， when I do this， I， when I have my cyber attacks， I do some computation。

I have a psycho under B under the public key B。I apply this decption， I get another Cyphert under B。

😡，And the noise level is。At most this good， and then I have another。Encryption with。

The same public keyB， I do one operation and I reduce the noise level to still be this。

 and I can do it as many times as I want。Okay， so in this sense， I guess。

 I do get this kind of multi hop。Because I can encrypt and encrypt and encrypt and encrypt as many times as I want。

I just need to ensure the noise is a little small。 I'm going to kind of do this bootstping or decrypt。

Under the FG to make sure the noise is doesn't grow on me。DidDid I。Okay。

 let me just before I ask you for answer your question。 Let me just say one more thing。

Is should we encrypt our secret key？Under our public key， that's another question， is it sound。

 is it secure？对呀。no。我是。あよ。That he wants。How， how can they dec crypto。是して。P。

My secret key is not the public key， though。 So okay， let me， okay。

 so now suppose what I'm going to give you before I only give you B。

And security follows from the fact that by the LW， you can distinguish B from uniform。

 And if B was uniform， it was information theoretically secure。 Like the message was actually gone。

 Okay， So that's how you argue security。 But now I'm going to give you B。And I'm going to give you。

The encryption of the first bit of the secret keyr be an encryption of the second bit。

Under B and so on and so forth。 So right， each one of this is just。Of the form R B。Plus。

 this bit times G。Is it secure， can I give you this？Do things break？Yeah。せわせ。That's exactly right。

 So okay， the answer is we don't know。So is it secure？And the answer is。We don't know。

 It's a great question。 Actually， this is one of the kind of theoretically the most important。

 like a really interesting open problem here in this in about FHE。We don't know， so we assume it is。

Let's assume， and this is what's called circular secure A LWE。

 So LW E tells you basically that circular secure version tells you。

That it's secure when you have As S。Basically， it tells you when you have a plus E。

And you basically tells me when you encrypt。The secret key， it's so secure。 Okay。

 let me now actually define this formula。 But you， you just assume it's secure。 and it's。

 and it's good。Do we have a fullyli homomorphic encryption。Under just standard L， we can we。

 maybe there's a better way to do it。 And the answer is， we don't know。 That's a great question。

By the way， thats a great question。The only construction we have is based on L。

 which is kind of interesting because originally all of cryptography was based on number theory and group theory。

And then people were freaking out about quantum。 and out came L。And lattices。But turns out， oh。

 let is are really interesting because we can do these really powerful things like fullylimorph with encryption。

That we have no idea how to do under like a group based cryptography。Or number theory。

The only way we know how to do it is based on latticees。Okay。

 so can we do it under So A can do it under other assumptions。

 but also can we do it without the circular or secure assumption。

One proposal to do it under without circular secure is say， oh， and。Different key。

So let's not use the same key。 Let's use a different key star。

Now there's also called of security because this is a completely fresh public key。So in other words。

 I'm giving you all my data under one public keyB。😡。

But now youll come and tell me no that's not enough for me because I need to do deep computations and my nose grows。

So now I'm going to tell you， okay， so you like， give me an encrypt of your secret key so I can。

 you know， denno it。 I'm like， I'm worried。 I don't believe C secure FHG， though。

 like its C secure WE。 So what should I do。So now what I can do。

 I'm going to give you an encryption of my secret key with respect fresh key B star。 So this is。

 So I'm going telling you， here's B star。This is。It starts to shoot to kind of refresh the noise。

So now after you go to depth D。😮，You can kind of refresh to the noise。😮，With B star。

But now you have a key， now you have encryption under B star。😡。

And so you do more and more computation then you're like， okay， I'm out of room again。😡。

So what should I do now， So give me an encryption of T star under。😡，Under what？Oh。

 I'll give you another B。So basically， what you can do， if you really don't like circular security。

 another thing you can do is to say the following。I'm going to give you kind of a list。

Of public keys。Like basically B， and then maybe I'll call it B1， B2。😡，BD。I'm going to encrypt。

Kind of the first pop secret key under B1。And then I'm going to encrypt the secret key of B1 under B2。

 and I'm going to encrypt the secret key of B2 under B3， and I'm going to have this long list。

And then I can tell you， okay， every time you're done， move to another key。

 like you're going to progress。😡，To the next kind of public key。

But then the problem is that the public keygros。Okay。

 so I need to give you more and more public keys， depending on the depth。 So if， so if you。

 if you tell me， look， I want depth D， sure， I'll give you D public keys。And that's it。Yeah。Great。

 great， great， great。 So what you're suggesting is that， Okay， how about we do the following。

 Maybe we should。😊，Enncrypped。Like， we have original care encrypted with B1， and then B1。

 probably B2， B2 with B 3， B 3 again with B1。 At some point， I'm gonna to just make my cycles bigger。

Is that more secure？We don't know。It seems more secure， but we don't know how to reduce that。

 That's also kind of a a more general kind of circular or secure assumption。

 a different circular or secure assumption。In general。

 we call these KDMs where the key depends on the message depends on the key。

So it's kind of a key dependent message。And once the key depends on the message， things kind of。

You know， it'， it's a different assumption becomes。 and we don't know how to argue。

 and we don't how to reduce it to standard assumption。So that's， so you can make， Oh。

 did you have a question。O， one thing I do want to say is that I told you you can make the secret key。

 The public key be as large as D， the deck。And then you can do more for up to a depth。

 So now tell me the depth you want。 You can say I want depth to enter the 100。

 I'm sure here's public key。 Here's entered 100 public keys。 And now you can， okay。

 but then you can say， wait， that's stupid。 You can just make Q。Bigger than N to the D。And then like。

 maybe that's good enough。And the answer is you can make Q bigger than n to the D。But it's。

 it's much worse because first of all， everythings go grows with Q。 Like then Cyphertex grow with Q。

 Heres on the public keys grow with Q。 So the Cyphertex that I'm sending around can have small Q。

Okay， if you take Q to B really large， the separate text become large。

So when people don't want to use circular security， they usually use。

 just make the public keys kind of big。Okay， and that like people call level FH。

 It's like only up to a certain level。 And then if you want， you can actually even SH。

 that's only for level like GSW for certain level， that's called level FHG。

 And then you can bootstrap the full FH， either by making circle or secure assumptions or by just increasing your public key kind of to be bigger and bigger。

 Okay， we're out of time。 So well， on Monday， there's a midterm。 And then after that。

 we're going to start totally different like proofs，0 knowledge proofs and stuff like that。Okay。

 I'll see you guys on Monday then。