# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p22 6.5620 Lecture on 11⧸19⧸2025 (Wed).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p22-

等于这份。I没。Okay， so hi guys， so last couple lectures， we talked about zero knowledge proofs。😊。

Today we're going to shift。And go from talking about zero knowledge proof to talking about succinct proofs。

 So， and in particular， we're gonna today， we're， we're gonna cover the sum check protocol。

By the way， before I start。I just realized that theres a class here on Wednesday。

 the day before Thanksgiving。 I'm just curious how many people are going be here on Wednesday。

 the day before Thanksgiving。😊，Okay， great， okay。Okay， so。

I planning based on the number to think what to teach。 But okay， I don't need to change。 good。

 So what is so what's the plan for today。So。We talked about zero knowledge proofs and how in order to obtain proofs that reveal no information about why the statement is true。

To achieve that。Goold was for Miikali and Rakov defined this notion of interactive proofs。

And then we showed construction。 Then we showed we can even get a non interactive zero out proof。

 we assume this common reference string or common random string。Today。

We're gonna get back to interactive proofs， But for a completely different reason。

So now here's the motivation that what we're going to study in the next couple lectures。そう。

Going back to the psydiric， going back to our lectures and fully homomorphic encryption。

 where the goal was we said， oh， we have tons of data。

 We may not want to store them locally because we're kind we have small devices。

And so we would like to outsource all our data to put them in some cloud or some service and then。

 but we care about privacy。 Okay， then we said we want them to do not just hold our data。

 but we may want some computations done on our data and so on。

 and so we send it encrypted using some encryption。

 but we want it to be fully homomorphic to enable the service to do some computations on our data。

Okay， so now we tell the servers do this computation and my data， give me back the answer。Okay。

If we don't trust the service， how do we know that the answer we get is correct？😮。

And that's kind of the focus that we're going to think about in the next couple lectures。

So more concretely or more simply， I should say， here's the question。😊。

Suppose even forget about data， here's like a simple version of this question。

Suppose I have some program I want to run。 This program takes a lot of time。Too slow on my machine。

So I want to outsource it to some supercomputer。That can run this computation for me。

So I give this program to my service， and it should take a long time， but they have a supercomputer。

 They run it for me， and then they give me the output。Forget about privacy。 If we want privacy。

 we'll put FHG for let's not worry ourselves about privacy now。 Okay， my question is。

 how do I know I got the answer I wanted to get。Okay， so how do I know， So if I have some。Program。

And I'm going think of it as a training machine。 Okay， you can think of Python program， whatever。

I have some program I want to run。And I have an input。X。Okay， the input， let' say is of length n。

The program， you can think that it' is constant。 when you run a program。

 it's some thousand9 encode code or whatever， or true machine。 It's a constant thing。

But I want to run M on input X。So now I go to my service here， and I tell him。

 here's my tuuring machine。 here is X， and here is T。

And I want you to run my program M at most T steps。 let's say I want to compute M and input X。

 So he should give me， he should basically run M and at most T steps。And give me the open。

Let's even the output is a bit for simplicity。How do I know that I got the correct output。And now。

 you know， computation is expensive。 So there has incentive to cheat。So we， we took care of privacy。

 We said， okay， if we don't want to reveal X， we don't reveal M， we encrypt。Put privacy aside。

 How do we know if we don't trust our service， How do we know we' got the correct open。So what do。

 yeah。当这是。Okay， one good， great idea。Is， you know， let's try to take a bunch of computations that we do know the answers to。

 Ask them these computations together with our computation。 and then we'll check。😊。

That works if you have solutions。That look indistinguishable from your computation。

So what if you ask a computation that's very much related to you that you know the answer to。

And you give the data provider other computations that have no。Like they can maybe that。

 maybe the concern is that the service can distinguish。

Between the real computation and the computations that you have solutions to。

If your computation that you want to do is kind of uniformly distributed， whatever then or， you know。

 has some distribution for which you can generate things that you know， the answer too good。

 Another thing is， once you give it to them。Now he knows， oh you he can。

 so let's say you worked hard， found like say， k inputs where you computed on your own M。

 so maybe you yourself， you know you worked hard， you generate these fake X1 of the xk。😡。

You computed Mx1 up to Mxk。And now you gave M with all the x's， the K that you know。

 the input in the Xa you don't know。You give it to the server。 The service gives you all the answers。

 Okay， it can't cheat。 Maybe it can't distinguish。 Next time you come to him。 He's like， oh。

 these are already seen。 So I another fake。So it's complicated。 Actually。

 we do have delegation scheme that are based on this idea。 Okay， using FHG， is not as simple as this。

 This idea as is runs into these kind of issues， but it is a great idea。😊，Okay。

 but here is the get the point is the following。 We do want some to give we what we want from the service is n of x。

 the output， the bit output。And together with some proof，I want pro did it correctly。O。

What's the problem？The problem， what， what do you mean to proof it in general。

 we do not believe that general time T computation。Have a proof of correctness。Of size， smaller。

 much smaller than T。And in that size， I can just， in that with that proof。

 I can just run the computation on my own。And the reason is， like。

 we don't believe if you think of the class N。Which is all the claims that have polynomial size proofs。

We don't believe that it contains like Dtime things where super poly， like Dtime enter the login。

 for example。😡，We don't believe it's contained an NP。So you like for this type of computation。

 you don't， we don't believe you have a polyial size proof。😡，Or if you want the。

 the tonened down version of it， if you have a D time。T computation。

We do not believe that you have a end time。Even T to the epsilon proof。O， where you run， I mean。

 okay， if you run in time Paul to depthson you have， But we don't believe that you have。

Like short proofs。 if you run in time， if you get a proof and the total runtime is much less than T。

 we don't believe that there exists such proofs。So again， a wall， you can't expect to have proofs。

Okay， but we want proofs。 And let me tell you today， it's a big kind of industry proof systems。

 in it's used a lot in blockchain applications。 and now banks uses them and so on。

 So we do have 16 proofs。Despite the impossibility。How do we have them？ Well， we use cryptography。

And in particular， the way we got to these proofs is we， it came from。

 let's consider attractive proofs。That's kind of the starting point。 Okay， with N just one proof。

 we can't get succinctness， at least without crypto。And then the next idea was。

What if few we use now we have， you know， Govaa， Mialli and Raakov gave us the gift of interactive truths。

So what if we use a proof that's kind of interactive？😮，Now can you prove it to us？Now， as we。

 as I mentioned in class， this class， you can prove using an interactive proof。

You can prove any language in peace space。 That's a result。Due to Shamir。In the early 90s。

 I believe 92。So meaning or more precisely。Amy。Tre machine。That can be computed in some time T。

 I don't care。 but space S。I have an interactive proof where the verifier runs in S in the space。

 not in the time。😡，Okay， so any computation， take any computation。

 any trim machine that requires you to run it。 you need time tea。In space S。

Notice the space is always at least like it's smaller or equal to the time because time， I mean。

 you don't use more spaces than the time。 Often， it's much smaller than the time。

So for such computation， we have an interactive proof where V runs in time。Roughly S times polylo。T。

And he needs to redemp。 So I know something， this is a rough， It's not。More or less， morally。Okay。

 so he grows only polyriiths with a time。But he does grow literally with a space。Okay。

 so that's why it's called peace space。 because if the prove， if the verifier is polynomial。

 then it's only for polynomial space。So you can do much more。 So at least now you can delegate。Any。

Any program that doesn't require much space。 And that's a lot。 A lot of programs are linear space。

 for example。Okay， what， what are moreover， So that's what we can do information theoretically。

And then with crypto on top。We can just get the verifier running in time polylo T， period。

 I don't care about the space。So my goal is to teach you kind of what's going behind these succinct proofs。

 Okay， just so you know that target it's called in the literature。

 It's called it's very interesting how the more I would say the the kind of popular literature not。

Not our papers， but like if you read the newspaper， whatever， you know， the geek things。

 it's very interesting。 They call it Z K Prous。 That's the name of the Z K Prous。

 There's no Z K in them。 It's just succinct proofs。 but the name they uses Z K proof。And then。

 but sometimes they do want Z K and tap。 They want0 now on tap。 And then they use the name Z K。

 Z K proof。 It's， it's pretty ridiculous。 It's funny， but。😊，But its。好じてで。Okay， so today。

 what I want to teach you is one specific protocol。

That you doesn't have a classical kind of NP proof， just， you know， one message proof。

 but does have an interactive proof。Okay， and that's the subject protocol。 Now。

 I'll tell you the problem that I'm going to solve。 Like what， what I want to prove。

 It will seem not interesting in the beginning。 I will see， why should I care。

 But it turns out that's the main building block and all these6cc proofs。Please。

 let me tell you the problem。 So here's the sumump。Let's say I have a prover and I have a verifier。

And the prover wants the ver to prove to him， there is some polynomial F。Let's go go some from F。

To the M pathf。So an nvariate polynomial F is some finite field。 You can think of it as Z P like the。

 I mean， GFP。 So the field having elements 0，12 up to P -1 p is a prime。

 and additionalplication might P。But you can think about it abstractly as well。 Okay。

 so there are some field。And F is of degree。At most some D in each variable。😡。

And now I want the prover， the verified to prove to me that if I sum F。And let's say H1 up to HM。

Where H1 of the H M are in some set， H H is some subset of the so。Pake H is some subset。Of the film。

A common choice is H is just 0，1。 So on the hypercube。 Okay， so you can think of H。

It's just being 01。Okay， so I want the verifier to compute this sum for me。

 So to compute this low degree polynomial everywhere in the hypercu。

 Let's think of H as being the hypercu。Okay， but everywhere in in H。So he does this computation。

 This is， you know， it everything is over the field。 He does this computation。

 He says the output is V。😊，How do I know3？Now， I can compute it on my own。But let's。

 let's say even me and the verify。 we both have oracle access staff。 So I can ask F， I can ask。

You know， I can ask someone， give me the in the value of F on a specific point。

Here' is input Xon of X M。 I want the input。 I want the compute F for me。 So let's say I can do that。

 and the prove can do that。I meaning I the verifier and the prover。Now。

 I can compute this on by asking H to the meal queries。 Okay so for every H1 of gem。

 I can ask what is F。And this input。I got all these things and I add them up。

That will take me time roughly sides of H to the M。😡，I don't want to work。

 I want to work in time like linear and M。😡，Okay， not exponentially in him。How do I do that。

 either verifier。So I'm going to show you a protocol。

 a very elegant and simple protocol for doing that。😊，And again。

 I want to emphasize before I lose you kind of thinking of， why do I really care about this。

 This seems like a really contrived problem。 I don't care。 Let me tell you that， actually， the most。

The general result we'll see for kind of delegating any computation。

The only or at least some class of very kind of elaborate computations。

 the only the only building block uses is this。So it seems contrived。 It's not contrived。

 It seemed like very specific， like low multivariate， low degree polynomial。 you know who cares。

 But as we'll see the the general delegation scheme will just be a bunch of invocation of this simple polynomial。

😊，And if you look at the Is piece space of Shamiya， this is the main not the only。 There's more。

 There's degree reductions of going on。 a lot of other things。

 but this is kind of the main building block in his construction as well。And actually。

Any delegation scheme you'll see in the literature， this is the main building block。

Except ones that throw kind of huge amount of crypto like in distinguishfuscation， blah， blah， blah。

 okay， but those who don't rely on like these heavy elephant assumptions in cryptography。

 they all use this building block。Okay， so this is like the bread and butter of all the kind of succinct proof systems。

 whether they're interactive or not interactive。Okay， so that's what we're going focus on。

 So what's the protocol for this。 How， how does the prove prove it。

And the protocol is actually really simple。Very， very simple。 So the prover computes this。 Yeah。

 he computes He runs in time age to them。 all all the oracle calls and computes。Now。

 here's what he does。He's going to first tell the verifier。

He's going to send the verifier a univariate polynomial in the univariate polynomial。 call it G1。

An X。It's some。Of F。This is open， so this is x。H2 up to HM。Over age2 up to H。Okay。

 so we send them a univariate polynomial。So he sums everything， but keeps this open。Okay， now。

 so basically， here's how we think of it。 when the， the verifier， when the verifier wants to proof。

 basically is like， okay， I'm worried that this guy's malicious。

 I want to catch him if he's malicious。 Yeah， that's how we should think of it。

So how does the verifier catch the prover she's malicious， He tells the prover， you know what， give。

Your polynomial。😮，Do are sum everywhere， except for the last， except for one coordinate。If。

She did here。This polynomial is not the cracked Univariic polynomial。😡，Because I'm going to check。

 so this guy， the verifier checks。😮，That G1。I degree has degree。Small or equal to D。

 like it should have， because it's a univever of degree D。 And he will check that the sum。Of G1 an H。

Is the claimed V？Which it should be， because when you sum here and all the possible H's。

 you should get V。 That's that's what the claim is。So if V is incorrect。

G1 cannot be the correct thing because if its G1 the correct thing when you sum them up。😡，You get Z。

 he's not correct。😡，So， if。V is a cheat， G1 is a cheat。😡，Now， what does the verifier do？

The verifier is going to choose a random element T1 in the field。And now the point is the following。

 If G1 is not the correct polynomial， iss not the actual sum of F on what it should be。

Then the claim is what we're going to use is that。G1 and T1 is also probably wrong， why。Because。

Two different polynomials agree only on like the degree number of points。 Now think of S。

 the field is huge， much bigger than the degree。 This is important。 So you should think in your head。

 we'll see in analysis what it needs to be。 But think of the size of F as being much。

 much bigger than the degree like actually bigger than D and even times n。It's gonna be much bigger。

 You can think of these thinking like like two to the security parameter or something。

 And all of these are like polynomial。Okay， so the field is very large。And so。If he cheated in V。

And this， look， maybe he already was caught and then fine。 He's caught。 where the prove is caught。

 If this doesn't hold the prove caught， he goes home。 If he wasn't caught， G1。

 it means that G1 is false。And now I'm going to choose a random T1， this is probably also false。😡。

Yeah。也す。Good， the prover computes， he actually has or access to all these things。Okay， sorry。Sorry。

 yeah， yeah， yeah， yeah。 Okay， good， good， good， not dumb question at all。 You're right。

 the poover knowsf。The verifier gets black box access stuff。He knows F。 sorry， good point。

 I was thinking of it as actually degree like exactly。 But you're right。 He knows F。

 That's a thank you。 The prover knows F。 the verify has oracle access that。

 So the prover computes this。 Thank you。Great。Okay， so now we're left with something false。

 and we continue exactly in the same way。 So now what's now the claim is， is that， you know。

 basically， now we're left with another claim， which is basically。That F， that sum。Of F and T1。

H2 up to HM。Is this？G1 of T1。This valley， whatever it is。

And this is also false with very high probability。 if you cheat it up there。Then this is also false。

And this is an M -1 variables。😊，So we peeled off a variable。Oops， wait。See。Pty good。So now。

So now we continue。 How do we continue？We ask the verifier。 the prover to send。Some。

F T1 was fixed already， empty。Or x， if you want， H3 up to H M。So， another。This is going to be G2。

Another univerate polynomial。This is an H3 up to HM。What is the verifier check。

He checks at its degree at most D like it should be。So in the same check， basically， check。

That G2 has degree at most D。今问。Yeah， uniformly random， exactly。Uniformly random。

And he also checks that the sum of G2。An'm H。Is the claim the false claim， I guess， G1， T1。

Now the point again， if that claim in the box is false。

Then this polynomial G2 cannot be the correct polynomial。😡，Because if it was the correct pommoial。

 when you sum it up， you get true， but this is false。😡，Yeah二。Where very are。Yeah。Ca， the verifier。

G wanted21。No， great。 Oh， No， no， no， of course。 Yeah， Yeah， yeah， yeah， yeah。 He can。 of course。

 Okay， the verifier sense T1。 Sorry， let me， yes。What I meant to say， okay， the ver sense T1。

 they both compute。 You can think let's think of this as like a V0， the initial V。 They both compute。

Now let's have V1， let's call a G1 of T1。😡，They both compute this。 I mean， so now basically。

 he reduced。The claim。For this claim。Okay， so again， let me say this again。

 So we start with a false claim with some value v 0。 That's a false claim。The prover。

Sends a univariate polynomial that can includes the entire sample And the first variable it's empty。

 So that's a unvariate polynomial。If this was false， this is not the correct polynomial。

 It must be a different polynomial。Because if it was the correct polynomial， you sum it up。

 you get the real number， not the fake number。 So this is not the correct polynomial。

Which means with very high probability over t， this value is not the correct value。

 it's not actually this sum like it should be。😡，So now we have a new claim exactly like before。

 it's exactly a similar claim， but with n -1 variable。Its T1 now。Exactly， the verify chose T1。

 they both T1 defines this value。 But the point is that this。

 if if the original thing is false with very high probability， I guess it probability like。😡。

Everything except for D over F， like the degree over F。 If you。

 there's a few collisions that you could have kind of fell on fall on， in which case。

 all of a sudden becomes true。 But that's very unlikely with very high probability over T。

 And that's why it's important that the verifier chooses T and that it's uniform。

So with very high probability over t， you're left here with a claim that still falses。

 and now it's on M -1 variables。And then you continue decades as before。 Let's do one more step。

Okay so now we ask the verifier choose a compute like G2 where T1 is fixed。

 the second coordinate is empty， and then you sum overall the rest。 You check that it's low degree。😡。

And you check that the sum。😡，Is V1。😡，Which is G1 of T1？😡，Now。The one was false。G2 has to be false。

 so otherwise this will fail。Okay， G to its false。 Now the verifier send a random T2。And we let V2。

 we define it to be G2。I'm T2。And now we're left with a claim that says that F of T 2。

 sorry that sum F T 1， T2。H3 up to HM。And H3 up to HM。Is V2。That's the newcle。

This claim has only M minus-2 variables。 I mean sumations。And we continue this kind of m rounds。

Every time peeling off one of the suns。So we continue exactly like this。😊，Until we're left。

With kind of checking。😮，That F。T1 up to Tm。😊，Is a sum。At the end， the verifier basically。

We're left with a claim like this。Which is very likely to be false。

 And this the verify checks on his own。 Or maybe I'll do it。

 Let me do one more step before the last in the last step。The verifier sends kind of。

I guess the poover sends， like some。Or maybe the last one open。 So G。M。T1 up to Tm -1 open。😡，Sorry。

 it should be， sorry。The last G should be F。The last one open。

And now the verifier checks consistency with value Vm minus1， he checks that it's low degree。😡。

And then the verifier choose a random Tm and just query is the oracle to see if this this is the correct value or not。

So the verifier makes one Oracle query。😡，Okay， so let， let me kind of say this again。You know what。

 let me actually before I say this protocol again。Let me give you a different。Let me。

 let me give you a different protocol， very simple with very bad soundness。

 So I want to explain this protocol in kind of a different。A light， you， you know。

 let me explain the protocol on a different light in a bit。 Let me first say this exactly again。

 So again， I want the proveover wants to prove to to the verifier。That some。Over。M things。

 so it's exponentially many over H1 H to update M。😊，Of F is some value。

The way this protocol works is by M kind of rounds， back and forth rounds。

Every round reduces the claim to also summation with one less variable。😡。

So we start with summation over M variables。😡，Then we have a summation P1 is fixed。😡。

And it's over M -1 variables。Then we have a summ where T1 and T2 are fixed。And it's M -2。

 The summation is over M-2 variables and so on and so forth。

 until we have a summation with one variable。And then the verifier can just check with querying the oracle。

That's kind of the idea。So we'll do the analysis of soundness and completeness。

 but any questions about the protocol itself？Anybody want me to repeat it。Okay。

 so actually before I do the analysis。Of soundness and completeness。

 let me try to give an intuition for this protocol and this intuition will also be helpful when we use this protocol for arbitrary computations。

😊，So here's so okay， suppose I want to okay， let's say the prover and verifier。

 the prover wants to prove。😊，The prover needs to prove that F and H1 up to HM is equal some value v。

 sum H1 up to HM is in H。Suppose this is not even a low degree polynomial。

 It's an arbitrary function。 So he needs to prove that the sum of two design things。

Is it some valueluvi？What can he do？So think about it。 now we're worried that the prover is cheating。

That the prover， the prover is cheating。 It's not the right value。 and we want to catch him。

put them down there， okay。How we have he claims there is a sun。two of them elements。

 and he claims the sum is some value V。How can I catch him。

So here's one thing that the verifier can do。 He can tell him， okay， if V， if the sum is wrong。

 if the sum。Maybe you can tell you know what， give me？let me write it， actually。

 let me for simplicity， this is just simplicity of notation。 Let's think of binary。Okay。

 B1 of to BM in 0，1。Everything works with age， but it's just simply。

 simple to think about this this way。 Okay， now what the ver can do， he can tell， Ok。

 I don't believe you。Give me all the sums that start with zero and give me all the sums that start with one。

 so we can tell him， I don't know if I trust you。I give me kind of v0 and V1。😡，Where v 0 should be。

 So I want to know V0， which should be some F0 B2 up to BM。And V1， which is sum1。B2 up to BM。Thisす。

Overall， there'll be 2 up to BM。In 0，1。Now。If this is wrong， if this is not the right sum。

Then one of these is wrong。😡，Which is wrong。 I don't know The trouble。 Let's guess maybe this one。

 he's like， you know， I don't know which one I'm going to guess。 Vi is wrong。

So he's going to send him a random bit，0，1。 And let's say， so he sends a random bit like a gas G。A C。

 And let's say C 0 for a second。So now he's like， okay I don't trust this， so now he should send。

Okay， I will send v00， which is sum F0，0 B3 up to BM。😡，And V01， which is sum。F 0，1， B3 up to BM。

These are over a B3 up the piano。Now， if this indeed was the bad one。

 so we know if the prover cheated， if he claimed a false claim， one of this is false。😡。

He was lucky and this one was false。Great， then one of these need to be false。Which one。Let's guess。

Maybe this time we'll guess this is false。😡，And then again。

 well lastso we'll send him one and then we'll give me the sum of 0，1，0，011。

 and each of them'm going to guess where you're wrong。😡，Now， if the poor cheated。

And the verifier every time guessed correctly where the cheat was， I mean。

 maybe both of them are a cheat in which case he's lucky。😊，But if the prover is smart。

 one of them be will be correct。 And one of them is gonna be a cheat。

If the ver guess correctly each time where there was a cheat， then he caught him at the end。

 he's going to build up with F like some C1 C2 up CM and he's going to check。

But he wont catch him with probability。 So what's the probability that he won't catch him in this protocol。

呀。Exactly one over two to them， each time he needs to guess correctly where the cheat was。

And it's not one place he didn't get the cheat correctly。

 now the prover needs to prove something true。So kudos for him， he's in luck。

So every time he needs to guess where the cheat was correctly。What this protocol does， basically。

 he says， you know， let me assume。That F is low degree。And then he doesn't say， oh， I want on zero。

 and I'm going to choose either zero or one。😡，I' going to choose a kind of a combination of the two。

So here， the poor verifier need to say， is this wrong or is this wrong。With probably half。

 he guessed him correctly。Here the。Very far gets to put instead of a zero1。

 he gets to prove a random。Element in the field。 And we assume that the polynomial is low degree。

And really， this is what makes this protocol sound。 The reason this protocol sound is sound is。😊。

If the prover cheats。So here also， think of again， think of H here as being 0，1。 Okay。

 So if the prover gives the first message to the prover is exactly like that。

 he gives sum of0 and sum of one。Okay， it's let's say it's it's linear。 Let me be nice。

 Let's say sum over 0，1 and F is linear in each variable。If it's linear in each variable。

 you give a linear functions。 They giving F of 0 and F of 1。Now， if the original claim was false。

 one of them is false。But we're not going to choose either the F of0 or F of1。

 We're going to choose F of P。😡，For a random team in the field。

And by choosing a random team in the field， we have the guarantee that if one of them was wrong。

The combination and T' is wrong with very high probability， number of probability。

And that's what we use for soundness。Okay， so let me any questions， I'll write it down。

 but any questions about。So let's do the analysis。😮，Okay， so first of all。

 if the completeness is pretty clear。Namely。Namely。

 if there exists in F that's low degree degree D in each variable and P is honest and he does this computation and he does everything correctly。

 he would be accepted。Okay， that's pretty， that's just kind of by observation。 Okay。

 there's nothing here to be said Every time the check will pass。 You know， if you did it correctly。

 you will get low degree， the sum will be the sum of the V。And you won't be rejected。

 in the end you do give indeed the F。 So when the verifier asks this orle。

 he'll get the correct answer。 So if you're honest， we're good。Now， what if you're malicious？

So soundness。 So now the ideas of the analysis is。Is uses this technique of what's called。

Round by round soundness。And basically， what we're going to do， we're going to say。

If you had a false cling。To begin with？😮，After one round， you're still left with a false swing。

And after two round with very high probability。 and after two rounds。

 you're still left with a false claim with very high probability。 And so on so， until the left round。

 you have a false claim with very high probability。 And we're kind of do gonna do a union bound。😊。

Okay， so basically here's the claim。 The claim is the following。In round eye。

Like P star is proves a false claim。Of the form， I guess， F。Of a sum F and。T 1 up to T I-1 empty。TH。

Or sorry， sorry， not empty H。Ihi plus1 up to H M。It's some value。I。So here's the claim。

 suppose in the beginning of round eye。So in the Brazilgian ground eye， the claim is of this form。

Where V I is determined by the T's of previous round。

 It's kind of determined by what happened so far。 So when I is one in the beginning of the first round。

 like in the beginning， we have F of H1 up to H M equals V0， the initial claim。After one round。

 we have F and T1。😡，H28 up to HM is V1 and so on and so forth。😡。

So now what I'm going to claim is if in some round， this is false。The given， suppose it's false。

 Then in the next round， it's going to be false with very high probability。Okay。

 that's going to be the claim。😡，Okay， then。The probability。That for for round I plus one。

The probability， the probability is kind of over T。ITI。Yeah。The probability over ti。One second。

This is round I。Yeah， the probability over T。That you're left with a true statement， that a。That G。

 okay， so the that that F。F of T1 up to T。H。I plus one up to HM。Is equal。Actually equal to V plus1。

Is small， What do I mean by small， so sorry， let me make this explicit。Okay。

 so suppose its a false claim， so this is false。Okay。

 supposeupp in round I in the beginning of round eye。😡，There's a claim， but it's false。

 It's not a true claim。Now the question， what happens in the next round， in the next round？

The verify the prover sends a G。😮，And the verifier sends a random T。

 and this is taken to be so the prover send some GT malicious G， sorry， I letter plus 1。😡。

And the verifier sends a T。Am I getting， I think I'm getting some weight。 So in in the in round one。

 there's no T， It's just that's in the beginning of round1，1 in the beginning of round I plus。Okay。

 I guess this is at the end of round I plus one。 So before， O， at the end， this is in the beginning。

 at the end after round I。Now in that round we chose TI and now we have sorry。😡，GI， this is G of TI。

😡，啊。We denoted that by V I minus。By T V -1， sorry。I'm。Really bad with indices。Okay， yeah。

 when this was v0 for us。 so sorry， okay。Confuse myself with indices。O。So what this was false。Now。

 what happened after this false thing， the prover gave us GI。Now， assuming， so the after round I。

 assuming。GI is not rejected。So the verifier during ground I， he sends G。

 either G is immediately rejected， maybe it's not degree D， maybe the sum doesn't equal to the V -1。

 the claim V -1。😡，If that holds the ver is immediately rejected， the proof is immediately rejected。

 so I don't care。If he's not rejected， assuming it's not rejected， then I claim that this。

 it actually becomes true with very， very small probability。😡，Why？GI is not project。

And V -1 is false。It means that GI。It's false。Because。The sum of G and H。Should he call the truth？

And not。The first thing。The real sorry， I， O， G I is equal to V -1， because we checked that。

But F the true thing should not be equal to V minus1 because V minus1 is false。😡，So GI is false。If G。

What's the probability that it becomes when anti T， it all of a sudden becomes true？😡，That。

D over the field size。So because to low degree polynomials。Collide and two degree deep polynomials。

 collide and de points。D plus one。And it most equal one point。D， sorry。 Well。

 my indices are are okay。Thank you， D points。Yeah。So unless he chose the D points of collision between the false GI and the true GI。

Then we're still left with a false claim。So now by a union bound， the probability。That there exists。

There exists an I around I。Where we go from false。To true。Is at most the number of wrong which is M？

Timeent for each round it's on its D over F。Which is。So now take F to B much。

 much bigger than m times D， and you'll get good soundness。Okay。

 so this is the probability that you can cheat。 that you can get away。

You'll be accepted on a false claim。Questions about this。Good， not good。 Ex again where were we。Good。

 okay， great。 Okay， let's talk about efficiency。 What about the efficiency of the scheme。

So the efficiency， so maybe we'll write it here quickly。😊，So the verifier。

 the Earth first communication complexity。 What is what's the communication。So there's M rounds。

In each round， we send basically degree D polynomial。 So it's like D plus one elements。 right。

 So it's basically something like m times D。O， you've got a poly you send one field element。 Oh。

 there's also times log F。Because every time you send to send a field element， you need log of bits。

And this， you send this many field element in each round plus one， the ver sends one fine。

 That's why it's。and we do this in amarrons。Good。So this is pretty good。 M is small。 D is small。

 I'm thinking of these is usually one。 Okay， linear。 M is also， I'm think is very small in log F。

Fantastic。😊，What about the verifier runtime。So the verifier needs to do the sum of the elements every time he needs。

 okay， checking something the G D is just D。 you're supposed to get the elements。 Okay。

 D plus1 elements。 That's kind of easy。It is the sum of of the times。 And that's it。

 You actually you oracle your query just once， right at the end。Other than that。

 this protocol also what's nice about this protocol is this protocol。

 I should write it in the communication。 It's what's called public coin。Which means。

That the verifier only sends random bits。Notice that the ver do cents random field elements。

So think about like random log F bits in each round。O。

 the fact that the verifier doesn't have any secrets or anything like that and just randomness is going to be something we're going to use later on。

Okay， so the ver just sends random bits， just random field elements。And his run time， while it's。

 it's similar。 It'ss something like M D， log F。 It's， it's pretty。Let me say O of。 okay。

 so you will need to be。Worried。Okay， because in each round， it just does add some D elements。

 That's D log F。 And that's basically what he does for all the rounds at the end and one Oracle column。

And the prover needs to compute these polynomial。 So the prover。Basically， needs the compute。

You know， H to the M times。That's the biggest。 And the rest is like。

 so he runs in time like the number of time to compute。 So basically， he runs in time like。Roughly。

Order of。That time it takes to compute F。Times H。To the M times M， something like that。

 so every round he needs to compute F H to them times add it all up。😡。

So that's basically the runtime。Great。Any questions about this protocol about the complexity。

 about soundness completeness。Okay， so let's take a couple minute break。 And then after the break。

 I'll show you why this protocol is at least try to give you an intuition why this is kind of the building block of。

 of other protocols。 Okay， so let's take a couple minute break。Okay， let's continue。 so aim。Okay。

 so what I want to show you a little bit about it next is why is this so useful？ Now。

 I told you there's the I equals P space result of Shamia。And where some check。

Is our main ingredient？😊，I don't want to show you this result。 this in for pieceb。

 which shows you that， like， oh， wow， this is very general。

The reason I don't want to show it is twofold。 First， it's complicated。

 I prefer to show you something much simpler。 Second， there's a drawback to this。

 to this interactive proof。 and the drawback for this interactive proof。

 which at that time in the 90s， it wasn't thought of as a drawback。 Okay。

 let me just put things in perspective。 But today。We think of it as a drawback and the drawback is that the prove runtime。

So suppose you want to prove。Suppose you want to prove the piece space you want to there's a string machine that runs in time。

Runtime is T and space S。In order to prove for the prover。 So the prover can do this computation。

 it takes some time T。 So in time T can compute and give the ver the response。

 But now the verifier says， no， I want to prove that it's correct。

The time it takes to interact with a verifier and convince him。Its。By something like。

Two to the S log。是。So it's like t to the space。So it's gigantic。It's not a polynomial overhead。

 It's a gigantic overhead。It can be an exponential overhead。So and let me say at that time， actually。

 there was a imperial to the work of Godbasso Mikali and Ra and Raov for they defined theology and introduced interactive proofs。

 There was also a paper by， by by and onean， who also introduced interactive proofs。

And that was your knowledge。 And they called the interactive proof。

 They called it Arthur Merlin protocols。 Why Arthur Merlin， because Arthur is a verifier。

 He's a king and he's interacting with Merlin， the wizard。

 So like it was the idea that the prover is all powerful。 The prover is a wizard。 He can do anything。

 Nobody cared about the run time at the prover。 Okay， he's like an all powerful thing。

 And the focus was on efficient verification。 And what's the most expressive language。Okay。

 so at that time， this was considered like close the door。 like everything is done。 Okay。

 we know exactly only peace space and peace space can be done。

 So like every language in peace space has an interactive proof and interactive proof is also contained in peace space。

 So it's a complete characterization problem closed。😊，But， of course。

 people a little more applied and think of these things are like， okay。

 this is a very nice theoretical curiosity， but nobody can use these interactive proofs。😊。

So then came this notion of what's called a doubly efficient。Intractive proof。

And in doubly efficient interactive proof， you want completeness and soundness exactly as before。

 So if you're honest and you're trying to prove a correct statement， you'll be accepted。

If you're malicious and you're trying to prove an incorrect statement。

 you'll be rejected with high probability。But also， you want the complexity。

Not to be to I on both sides。 and hence the Ws。And hence， the doubly efficient。

 So what you want by doubly what we mean。runun time。Should not be too high， so it should be。

 let's say， at most quality。😡，Of course， if you ask practitioners。They would say， I want utility。

Or even better。I don't know T plus or2 T or you know。

 they're very stingy at the time that they're willingington to you know。

 to cur the blow up their in Wellington curve， but let's say for theory， land polity。

 definitely not exponential in T。And the verifier runtime。Should be， of course， much。

 much smaller than T。 otherwise there's no point in delegation that he'll do it on his own。

So how much smaller， you know， ideally， you want the dependence on T maybe to be polyloggany。

And of course， plus geometry the inputs of， but the dependence on T should be like polyloarithmic。

 Maybe it's okay to have like T to the epsilon for a very small epsilon。

But the important part is we want to prove runtime。😊，To not grow by too much。

 So proving should not be much harder than computing。😡，And verification， of course。

 it should be nontri。 So you need to save something。 So you need to， to verify。

 you need to run time much less than doing the computation yourself。

Any question about the goal here of Doubly efficient tractor proofs。Yeah。

 so imagine this is something that maybe。收。But it's like something somewhat。So， by the way。

Note that so far， there is no security parameter area。 We don't have crypto yet。

I didn't introduce cryptography here。 I didn't use any assumption。 So usually security I okay。

 often when you talk about interactive proof， sometimes the security parameter or Lambda。

Means that when people use security parameter in the context of interactive proofs。

 they mean you should be。 you should reject false claims with probability 1 or two to the Lada。

 So it's kind of the number of repetitions you do to reduce the soundness。But now。

 so I'm not trying to suit。 So maybe Yeah，Like， there's some parameter that。Yeah， indeed， indeed。

 right。 the input grows， T grows， yeah。Yeah。Yeah， yeah， yeah。Okay， no， so good。 So you okay。

 you're right。 So the the runtime of the provers should be like size of x times this or something like that。

 Yeah， I didn't try I wrote in the dependence on T。

 but it's like the length of X times or maybe poly X times poly。 Yes， indeed， indeed。

 there's also the length of the input that I omitted here。 Good。 Thank you。 Thanks a lot。😊，Okay。

 any questions about the goal？Okay， so now。There is a question。啊。Yeah， why。

 it's not clear we need to pay。 I mean， okay， now it's clear。 We need to pay with us。 So fine。 So。

 right， So， you know， let me ask you differently， Paully。S times log T， Okay， I mean。

 anything smaller than T is fine。 That's just examples。 But yeah， that's good。 You know。

 its S times lock team usually much smaller than T。 At least for many classes， can we get that。

So now there's a question， for example， good question。 Can we have doubly efficient。

Intract proof for peace space， where maybe the verifier grows。 Yeah， for P space。

 Maybe the verifier should grow with。 Let me be even。The ver。Poly。X。S and Lo T。

This will be doubly efficient for peace space。😡，Cause if it's P space， the verifier is polynomial。

 because S is poly。 T is a true to the n。 There's no reason you can write the entire below in that time。

 the entire to a table。 So this is polynomial。 So do we have a doubly efficient version。Of Shails。

Claim。For peace， please。Okay， now here is the really annoying answer to this question。 The answer is。

 we don't know。Now， that's very frustrating because。In my mind。

 there's like a philosophical question， which is， we know how to prove。

Any length to polynomial time verifyifier， any language in peace space。Now。

But the prover needs to work really， really hard。So my question is。

 is proving necessarily so much harder than computing？😮，And if so， why。And to tell you the truth。

 we still don't understand the answer to this question。 I have to say。

 I personally have been obsessed with this question since I was a student here at M T more than 20 years ago。

And I， I'm still obsessed with this question， and we made progress。But we're still not there。

Like this specific question is still open。Okay， let me tell you what's known。 We do know。This。

 we know， for K Epson。We can also do it for might little less than Kan and epsilon。

 but I still a bit pathetic。 So this is good only if the prover runs in this time。

 it's only good for polynomial time languages。😊，We can do it for a little more。

 We can do it like but。O。That's pretty sad。 But what I am going to show you。Is a doubly efficient。

 interactive proof。Not for peace space。😮，But for different type of computations， Okay。

 so here is my doubly efficient interactive proofs。IP。4。Bounded。Deepth。Computs。

So what do I mean by bound the depth。Here's the computation。

 Think of the computation as being actually theres a circuit。

With let's say additional multiplication gatesma2。Chris， you have here the input X1 up to X N。Bs。

 and you just have you add。And then you multiply and so on and so forth。 Ma2， everything lot2。

That's my computation。Okay， it's like a really， really big circuit。

 Let's say there's a efficient way to represent it。

 So there's kind of a small T machine that tells you if there is a gate or no gate here。

But the circuit is really large。And so that's my computation。Yeah。Thanks。Oh， because it can send out。

Yeah， it can grow。 Yeah， it can be。 It can。 Yeah， otherwise， a， yeah， Otherwise。

 it's still not unsred。 If you don't allow fan out。

 then you can kind of it like can grow twice in each。 It's like a tree， basically。 But anyway。

 you can think of a。So in general， you can think of like。The variables of the bar。They can repeat。

 Yeah， the the variables in the bottom can repeat or。

 or I think of it as just having a lot of fan out in the bottom。Yeah。

 so I'm just thinking of it as fan out。Okay， great， great question。So， I'm going to show you how。

To do a doubly efficient， interactive proof。For these computations， but。Okay。

 so what's the verify runtime。 So we're going to show where the verify the do efficient。

 So the approval runtime is basically like computing the circuit。Actually， by now。

 what's known is how they know how to do it where the proveers runtime is linear in the circuit。

 So really， provinging is really as hard as computing。 It's a linear overhead， not even quasi linear。

 like linear。So that's great。 But the verifier run time。😊，Is， well， you need to read the input。 So x。

Or N dim length plus。It's。The depth， which let me denote by big D a small was the degree。

 So the the depth of this circuit is kind of the number of layers of the circuit。

So the depth times like polylog。The size。That's the size of this order， yeah。Of the circuit。Okay。

 so the point is that the verifier runtime grows with the depth。So if it's very， very deep。

Its going to take a lot of time。 So it's really only good for low depth circuits。Now。

We can use it with the way we use it in practice with very kind of deep circuits that we make。

 we take a circuit and we kind of squish it down using cryptography to make it very low depth。But。

We'll talk about that， next time。But for now， let's just add our goal。 Okay， our goal with no crypto。

 I have a circuit。 Its think of it as very shallow。You can think of it even a depth log n， Okay。

 so really shallow。And I want to prove to you that the output is correct。

And I'm going to show you that the output is correct。😮，For any。

 like this is a general thing for any circuit that has some uniformity condition because otherwise how could the verify even hold the circuit？

 So let's say there's some uniform way。 Let me now get into the uniformity condition。

 but any circuit that's kind of uniform。ESo the ver I can hold them succt， hold it succinctly。

 Then I can have a double efficient in po for it。Yeah。Okay， now。Let me tell you two things， first。

There's one ingredient in this protocol， one， And that's the sum check。 That's it。We basically。

 let me tell you the protocol the protocol is。Start， you do a sum check， a sum check， a sum check。

 a sum check， a sum check， until you reach the。The input layer。

 And then the verify does something locally。So really， there's only some checks here， nothing else。

Okay。Now， moreover。Let me give you an intuition for why there should be an interactive proof。

And maybe this intuition can remind you a little bit。About the intuition。

Well remind you about a discussion about the subject。So let's go to the intuition for。

 So here is a way to do。 you want a doubly efficient， interactive proof。 Sure。

 let me give you a proof， okay。So you guys are the prover， you may be cheating， I don't trust you。

 I'm a verifier。And you know， there's this circuit very， very large。

 it's like very kind of wide because it's not very deep， so it's very wide。

And you come and you claim the output is zero。Okay， let's， let's suppose that the fanon is too。

 for simplicity。 with our us of generalrale， you can always kind of， if the fanine is bigger。

 you can decompose。 Let's just assume that fan。 every gate has only two children coming into it。Okay。

Okay。So you clean the output a zero， I don't trust you。😡，I want to catch you if you're lying。

What am I going to do。So maybe this is I don't know， a plus gate。For example。

 it could be multiplication。I'm gonna。Question， idea， anybody。Okay， here's what I'm going to do。

I'm going to tell you， okay， give me。The two children。Give me the value here and here。😡，Now。

 I'm going to check that the sum is indeed this。Or that it satisfies the gate。

 whether the gate is addition or complication， that the gate is satisfied。Now， if you cheated here。

One of these has to be false。I don't know which one。If both of them are false great， I'm in luck。

 but probably only one because you're not that stupid。 So I'm going to guess I'm going say。

 maybe this is false。Like I'm going to say， okay， I believe this is false， let's continue with this。

Now， with probability half， this is false。And then I'm lucky。ask you， okay， give the two children。

Give the value of the two children。I'm going to check that the gate is satisfied。

 If the gate is satisfied and this was false。 One of them is false。Which one？I don't know。

 I'm going to guess。So I'm going to guess this is false。And then I tell you okay。

 give me the two children。And again， I'm going to guess which is false。 So， you know。

 maybe you give me the two children。 Maybe this time， I guess that this is false。 Eventually。

 we're going to get to the inputs。Now， the inputs I know。 So at this point， you can't cheat me。

 I know the inputs。😡，So when on the bottom， I know I can compute this gate on my own。

So now if you were ever cheating me。😮，I caught you。But with what probability？Exactly。

1 over two to the depth。Now， that's pretty pathetic。So that's no good。

 But at least I cost you with non zero pro。 You can't cheat me the realty1， at least， okay。Now。

 if you remember。This is exactly what happened in the sum check。 Remember。

 if remember in the sum check， I told you， forget about polynomials。

 Let's say we have a sum of two to the elements。 I'm going tell you， give me half of the elements。

The two halves， I'm going to check and I choose one of them， one of them， one of them。😡。

And this also， I got this one over2 to M， you know， of soundness。And how， okay。

 so how did I get around it with this subject protocol。

 I had a kind of the load of greenness is really what saved me。O。

 it's the low the greenness that I could kind of appeal to。Now， here。There's no low degree。

 What's low degree here， It's just an arithmetic circuit。It' okay， no。

 it actually if if this is that to the D and let's say the fanin is2。

 It's a degree2 to the D polynomial。O， because every time it it multiplies， the degree multiplies。

So if this was degree， you know， D1 and D2， this is degree D1 times D2。

 if it's a multiplication gate。So the degree here is large。So it seems like， what can we do。

So here's what we can do。There's a beautiful what we're going do。 We're going inject。

 So what's good about polynomials， polynomials what they do， They're kind of air correcting codes。

 What by air correcting codes。 It gives this option that if two thing， if one thing is wrong。

 like it's like encoding that if one thing is wrong， if you take like a random place。

 it's wrong almost everywhere。 So in other words， you can think of you know。

 we did here with a univariate polynomial。We say， think of the universever polynomials like the polynomial and input 1。

2，3， all the， all the points in the field。If it's law degree， if someone。It's wrong。

 If I choose a random point， it's gonna to be wrong with very high probability。So it's kind of。

 it has the property there somewhere it's wrong， it's wrong almost everywhere。😡，And this。

 that's kind of what aircrafting codes do。 If theres some， kind of。

 if there's something that goes wrong， it goes wrong almost everywhere you can catch them。

 That's kind of the point。Here or， or actually for air correcting recordss up。 you can correct。

 So if there's something wrong， there's a lot of like you can kind of correct it because。You know。

 because that's basically the property of a local of of a code。 So now what I want to do。

 instead of checking。If this is true or this is true。😮。

I want to kind of build in some polynomial and check basically I want to check like an encoding of this。

I want to put some aircrafting code。And check， now if this is true or this is true。

But like a random point in that encoding is true。And I want this encoding to have the property that if one of them is false。

A random point and then coding is false with very high probability。And can I do it， yes。

Do I have such encoding， Yes， what is this encoding exactly polynomials？😡，By the way。

 polynomial is like the bread and butter of aircrafting codes。

 most aircraftcing codes involve polynomials。😊，And and basically what we're going to see next time。

 there is this notion called low degree extension。That kind of encodes a layer。

We are kind of polynomial。A'm multivariate polynomial。

 It's like read muer codes if anybody here took kind of class en codingding theory。

 but its I'm not assuming it。So basically， what we're going to see next time is I can encode。

Each layer， using some encoding。Which is called the low degree extension encotding。

 It's some kind of polynomial。And these very and these elements。And then what I'm going to do。

 this doubly efficient protocol， what it does， basically， you start with a false claim。

You apply a sum check somehow because we were talking about mostly very polynomials， and they just。

Results in the sum check。And you get a value in the layer below。And then you apply some check。

 you reduce to a layer below。 You apply subject you reduced to a layer below。

 and you have the property exactly as you did in a sumcha that if this value was not the correct value with very high probability。

 this will not be the correct value。And if this is not the crosswell ver this one until you reach the input。

 Once you reach the input， the ver knows the input and he runs， he can check on his own。

So that's basically the idea and we'll cover that on Monday。Have a great weekend。

