# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p05 6.5620 Lecture on 9⧸17⧸2025 (Wed).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p5-

O。Okay， hi guys， so。OK。So today， we're gonna continue and hopefully finish the construction。

 the proof of our construction of a PR G。 So just to recap what we showed last time is the first。

 first in order to construct a PR G。😊，It suffices to just stretch by 1 bit。

 If you have a PR G that stretches by 1 bit， you can just continue and stretch it as long as you want up to polynomial。

 And that's just by concatenating。 if G is PR PR G。

 you just concaten it with itself kind of as many times as you want。

And last time I tried to kind of show you kind of a fake proof using induction。

 just to show you that it seems convincing， but it's false。 like you need to be very careful。

 And typically， the way we do these things is via like a hybrid argument。 So basically。

 the thing to remember， And I wrote it it's explained in detail in the notes。 by the way。

 the notes are always more detailed than class。 Okay， so it's a good idea to read the notes。

 even if you come to class。😊，So， so basically， the same kind of fake proof that I did in class。

 the way to do it formally is via a hybrid argument。

 And the thing to always keep in mind that even though induction kind of seems convincing。

 it works only for K， that's a constant。 Okay， once you need the number of a petition K to grow with security parameter。

 then the induction is no longer a valid。 unless you do it super carefully and the way to do it super carefully is via hybrid argument。

 basically。Okay， so that's what we showed last time。

 So now our goal is just to construct a PR G that stretches with one like has only a single bit stretch。

And the way we did that is the following。 we said， So we're gonna construct it from one way permutation。

 Okay， that's our goal， given a one way permutation。

 which is a one way function that also happens to be a permutation。

 So it's length preserving and a bijection from lambda from lambda bit， lambda bit。😊。

And the way we did it is we first said， whoa。If are one way for mutation。

Happened to have hardcore predicate。Where Harco predicate just says， like。

 take your one way function of permutation。 It one way permutation means it's one way means it's hard to find X。

 If there is one bit where you can kind of come one predicate that really kind of makes it that predicate be super hard。

 Like you can't do better than guessing。 Okay， so any adversity that tries to guess the predicate。😊。

He cannot succeed pro better than half， half plus negligible。 So that's kind of a place where。

 you know， that bit is really， really hard to guess。 Like。

 you can't do better than just random guessing。If you have such a predicate。

 then constructing a PR G， as we saw， that expands1 bit。Is just by taking F of x。 So give an x。

 you compute the one implementation and concateate to it， the Harco predicate。

And the reason this is a PR G is because it terisfies the next bit unpredictability。 Okay。

 so up to here， it's really random。 So it's really given us a partialel。

 You can't find the next bit because because of the， because it's a permutation。So， it's a bijection。

And then give up to here the fact that this looks you can predict。

 just follow from the Harcore predicate。So really， the only thing that we need to work hard for is finding this hardco predicate。

Okay， and then what we showed what we started what we mentioned last time。

 theres the very beautiful theorem of Gozefe Neve。😊，That sense that for any one， we function。

So it doesn't even have to be a permutation for any one way function F。

The following randomized predicate is a hardcore predicate。 So P。Which takes his input act。

 but also some randomness。And just output X dot R。 And this is just a shorthand for the sum of the bits。

Xi dot times R2。Okay， so this is a P is。A hardpore predicate。That's the go national。

And if we prove this theorem， then we are done。 Why， Because then R G， Im it randomized。 of course。

 So you you know， it's noturistic， but it's， it's O。 It's good enough for PR G because then our PR G。

Give takes us input， two things。 We'll just treat it。 let's say the input is even。

So you just kind of partition it like lamb the bits and under bit。

 And then the output is just going be。是啊。The one way per mutation。R， that's the two on the bit。

 And then you pan to it。The Harcore predicate。Okay， and when I。

 what I mean by a random Harcore predicate， what I mean is that for any。Poly size adversary。

There exists an negligible function。Such that。The probability， that the adversary。

 given the one we function， given the randomness。The probability that he managed。

Manaages to predict the hardcore predicate over x and R。I are most helpful。

And this is for every land， of course。Okay， so then now this note， this stretches by  one bit。

And if it's odd， you can always kind of， if it's odd， you can。If you have another bit here， B。Then。

 just。I'll put this be on its own， and take the first。Like everything separate life。So either way。

 it's stretching and exactly as before。 The first part is really random。 So it， of course。

 satisfyfies the next bit un predictdicability because it's。Perfectly random。And given this part。

 the reason this is unpredictable just follows from the hardcore predicate。O。

 so that's where we were。 And now we're gonna prove the gola Rainre。Any questions before we。

 So my plan today is just dive into this。 Fort about PR G。 This is how you construct them。

 The only thing I need to prove So the construction is clear。This is the construction 1 B。

 You need more bits。 You iterate。 What's not clear is why this is indeed a hardcore predicate。

 And that's what we're going to prove。So questions before， before we continue。Okay。

 so how are we going to prove this。Well， we're assuming that F is a one way function。

And we need to prove that this randomized P is a hardcore predicate。

And the way we do proofs and cryptography is VR reductions。Okay， so what we're going say。

 we're going to say， well， if I have an adversary that predicts P。I'll be able to use him。

To break the one way permutation。Here， but this is one way function。

 It doesn't need to be a permutation。 So the permutation was just。For this to be a PR G。But， so， O。

 so the book goes a following， suppose。So， fix any。When we function。Now。

 I need to argue that this predicated hyper predicate for this function。So suppose not。Suppose。

There exists。An adversary， Apoliide adversary。And the non negligible。Epsilon。

 so this is kind of epson of lambda。Such that。For every lambdown。The adversary。The probability。

The adverary， given。Aforback。And are。It guesses。X that R。 That's the P。啊。With probability。

Greater than half plus excellent。Okay， so suppose I have an adversary that can get in the properties over x。

And R。Random zero want to the la。Now what I want to do。Now， what I want to do is I want to use a。

They invert the one way function。 And that's gonna be a contradiction。

 because I am assuming you can't inver it。So what we're going to show， We're going show。

 We're gonna construct。A po signs。Algorithm B。Said that。The probability。That be。

 that's what we we're going to construct it try to prove。That the probability that。B。

 when given the F of x。I'll put an element。In the thin verse。

So I'll put some some x prime so that F of x prime is equal to f of x。 So finds any pre image。

Is not neligible。Okay， so we'll see。But that's our goal。 This knowledge will relate to this epsilon。

Okay。It's gonna be very close。 It's basically this nonactable be something like Eon over 2 plus in。

And it's unacgable， because thaton is not。Okay， but we'll see， we'll see that。 But basically。

 the idea， you give me an adversary。That predicts。I'm going use him to convertvert my oneway function。

And because I assume the one way function， you can't invert it。That， you know， that that。

X R is indeed， a hardcore predictdi。Questions。Yeah， just a reminder。 I love questions。We're good。

 ready to start， okay。Good， so first， let's see。 So how are we going invert。I'm given I。

 I need to come up with a B with an algorithm B。That given a why here inverted。How can we invert。

So we need to use a。So first thing I want to know， look。

 A only succeeds with probability half plus epsilon。There may be X'es。Or I should say Y。

 It's like F of x and Y， which I want。It doesn't succeed at all。 So it takes input put Y and R。

For some of them。It's a season for some not。So if you always fail to do that for given X， forget it。

 I， I'm not gonna to succeed either。Okay， so what I'm going do， let's the note by good Xs。

 So this B is going to succeed on some axiss。Pa， not all X'es。

And which X is will he succeed And the X is that A succeeded。So， let me denote by good。Good for B。

 Good for the inverter。The set of all x's that a helps me out with。So this is that set of all x's。

And 0，1 to the lambda。 So think of， you know。For each lamp， I have the set。Like that。

The probability that F of x that。That the adversary， given F of x。And random succeed。

Its is not nothing。And how big I'm gonna make it， I， I can't make it more than halfless epsilon。

 because it may never happen。Actually， I don't want to make it even halfless epsilon。

Cause it may be that very， like almost always， it's like half plus tiny bit less than epsilon。

So the way I'm gonna to do them do something like I can do like half plus epsilon over 2。

And then I can use Markov's inequality。 And if you don't remember， go to the notes， please。

 So by Markovs inequality。I know that。 the probability。That X isn't good。Is at least excellent。

Over to。For every land。And this is for X uniform。Okay， and basically。

 the reason is if therere so few， if there are less than xon over two good ones。Even if。

That he to probability1。You know， that's only Epson over two。And， and the rest。

He succeeds with probability less than halocepson over 2。 So together。

 it's going to be less than halflo epsilon。哪得到。So it has to be that， you know。

 he succeeds its probability more than this。And something kind of。Somewhat heavy。

 And at least that's long War2。And again， this exactly， it， it falls from Marov。

 but you can refresh your memories by looking at the notes。 I wrote this kind of more。

 more explicitly。😊，By the way I want to say， I really， really encourage you if you want to。You know。

 my goal is for you。To learn crypto， of course， But even more to enjoy this class。 Okay。

 you should enjoy the concepts。😊，And kind of this should be a treat for you。 Okay。

 and the way to make it a treat is when after class， it's very hard to enjoy it online during class。

 because。You know， it's， you're basically really busy following， and it's very easy to get lost。

 And it's like the best way to enjoy it is after class， look like。😊，Look at the notes。

 try to kind of predict， try to really understand。 And what I mean by I really understand。

Not understand line by line po。 Okay， this implies， this implies that's somewhat boring。

Try to really understand。 And what I mean by I really understand is kind of， I don't know。

 Close your eyes and Try to think if you can construct the proof on your own。

 Or when you read the note， try to predict kind of the next step。Okay。

 it's only when you kind of not just follow line by line。

 but kind of understand the proof like in your head that you can really appreciate it and enjoy it。

 Okay， so the more you understand the concept， the more you'll actually have fun here and learn crypto。

😊，O。So good。 So I have this good exit and these good Xs I'm going to invert。So I'm gonna my。

 my algorithm B is going to find a pre image。Only on these and the good ex。 not good ex。

 I'm gonna fail， but there's enough good ones。Hence， the epon over 2。

 And then when I Im gonna to succeed， at least with probably one man negligible。Okay。

 so let's see how。Questions before I continue。呀。Oh， it's sorry。 it it is sorry。 This is。 It's my too。

 Sorry。 Thank you。This is defined to be sum of X I times R I2。That when I say X R。

 that's what I mean。 Thank you。 Thanks for。The question。O。

 X R just means that's a symbol to to mean some of X IR Imau。 Great。 Thank you。Any。

 any other questions。Okay， so let's start。What we said last time is。If on these goods。

 so let's focus。 So I'm going to construct a B that takes this input F of x， and he tries to in。

Suppose that on this F of X that he got。Actually， for everyone。P everyone。He succeeds。

 Whatever are you give him， he gives you X R。呀。现在我。Yeah， yes。 Thank you。 Over R X is fixed。Yes。

 thank you。Precisely。Okay， so suppose for a second that the good X is actually。

 this probability is one。Okay， you can for every hour gives you extra。This case is very easy。

 I'm just going to ask him， okayk， give me R being 1，0，0，0。 I get the first bit of x。R being 0，1，0，0。

 I get the second bit。 I do a bit by bit until I get all of X。 here。 Thank you very much。 You're 0 x。

😊，That's a very easy be。But， of course， A' is not going be that nice。

So what do we do in A is not that nice。 It's not one。And these good exits。

So what I'm going to do first。Suppose， for a second。That the probability。That， and the good axis。

Instead of half。Suppose I have three quarters。 Suppose I don't have three quarters。But suppose。

 I did have three/ quarters。Then I'm going to show you how toverse。

And then I'm going to show you actually。That algorithm that inverts。

Almost works even for half plus epsilon。Okay， so that's the plan。

 I'm gonna first show you an algorithm algorithm， assuming this A succeeds with。3 quarters plus。

 non negtable。Of course， I've all over to。And then I'm going to show you。 I'm going to argue that。

 actually。Almost the same algorithm would have worked if you were placed instead of three quarters half。

 which is what we have。Okay， that's our plan。good。Okay， so now it's three quarters。 Okayy。

 that's where we are。Okay， so now what， what would be doing， Okay， so now， of course。

 it only succeeds。On average over R。 So I can't give it like 1，0，0，0，11 is 0，0。 He won't succeed。

He succeeds on the random hour。Any idea， what can I do， I want the first bit of x。

 I want to do bit by bit。Okay， so I want to get the first bit of x。But I can't give 1，0，0，0。

 because that's a weird R。 I mean， maybe on that R， doesn't succeed。So how can I get， yeah。Exactly。

 precisely。 And that's exactly what we're going to do。 Okay， so here's my algorithm B。

We'll take as input， F of X。And here's what it's gonna do。He' is going choose at random。

 So for each of it。For every eye in Lada， we're gonna go bit by bit。For every eye。

 it's going predict the eye bit。How is he going to predict the outt， What is going to do。

 Is it going to choose at random。2。Okay， this is independently for each eye， okay。

You choose a random R。 And then what you want to do， you're going to compute。

What how the answer of a and。The input in R， let me call it。B啊。Okay， let me call it B for now。

 And then I'm gonna。Compute。A， when it's given R X X or E I， E I is just 0，0，0，1，0，0，0。

Let me call this B prime。 So this is just 0。1，0。This is location I。And then I want X or。

 And hope that's real。 That's the thing So this should be X dot R， right， So this。

This is like with high probability，3 quarters plus Epsson over 2， This is X R。And this is X， dot。

 R X or E I。呀。Yeah， I'm only going to succeed on X is good。

 So this B is only going to succeed on good X。Okay， so what I'm going to show you now。Fix any good X。

Exactly， that's the。 Thank you very much。 indeed。 Now I'm going to show you that give me any X That's good。

 I'm going to show you that this my be will succeed in inverting F of x。😊，Actually。

 with probability 1 minus like with very high1 minus negligible for， for this good X。

It happen for every act。 That's good。 And there is enough of them。

 There is non negligary fraction of them。 So it's good enough。Okay， so now in， in your hand。

 of course， B is defined on anything。So this B， I'm going to define it for any F of X。But。

 it's going to work。For Xes that are good。Okay， so now when we kind of come up with this algorithm and think of the analysis。

 think of a good X because if X is not good， it won't succeed anyway。O。So then what I'm going to do。

 So what's my next step。 So I computed B， which is hopefully R X。 Maybe I computed B prime。

Which is hopefully x thatt R X or E I。 Now what would I do next， How would I predict the I bit。

Exactly， I'll Xor。 So I didn't predict that X I， let me call the prime。

 because that may be wrong is just B， X or。你款。But。That's not good enough。And the reason is， look。

 we'll do the analysis in a sec。 You know what， let me do the analysis。Actually。Here， for a second。

I wantna， this is good， but it's not good enough because I want to argue what we're going to see the probability that I'm actually right。

 that x prime I the eh bit is equal to the e bit of x。Is not that high。Okay， it's not that high。

 It's not 0。 It's， it's not half。 Ha will be just a random guess， but it's not like very high。

And we're gonna then we're gonna take like， we're gonna say that our x prime is x prime 1 x prime 2 up to X prime lambda。

 So we need to have a hyper probability that I'm right on each bit。 Otherwise， you know。

 some bit is gonna be wrong。 And Im， and then I got the wrong output。

So let's first what's the probability。 So you know， we'll do it in a second。 But basically。

 what I want to do。 That's not enough。 this， the probability that this is going be equal to the I of x。

 as we'll see in a second， is just like half plus some advantage。

 But the advantage is not going be big。You need something like Epson over2 or something。So。

 or too excellent， whatever， something not big。So。So， that's not good enough。So if we have， so I。

 I showed you a randomized procedure。That guesses the I bit with advantage。But， just with advantage。

So what am I going to do to get the I with high probability。啊。😮，Lunch， exactly， repeat。

So this' is exactly what we're going to do。 So for every eye。We're going to do。

 We're gonna repeat for every。J。We're going to repeat at k times。What is K We're gonna see， Well。

 let me tell you it K will turn out to be something like lambda over aton squared。 but we'll see why。

 Okay， forget about it。 we're gonna repeat in enough time。

 and our bounds will show you how much time we need to repeat it。And for each of these times。

 we're going to choose our sub。for the case， it also depends on I。

 I don't want to in the in the notes。 I wrote R sub I K。 I don't want to， you know。

 indulge you too many parameters。 but basically， for each eye， we do the following independent。

 do the following kind of independently。We choose basically R 1 R2 up to R。 sorry， this is J。

We choose randomly R1 R 2 up to R K。 O， for every， for every J and K， we choose random R。

For every random hour that's chosen。We're gonna kind of compute。The answer of A and this R。

 And in the R X or the E I。And then that's going to give us the eighth bit。

That's going give us one kind of candidate。For the Ibit。Now， now we have K candidates for the I bit。

 What do we do。Take majority， exactly。错误。Last thing， let x prime I equal the majority。And then。

 output。X prime， which is just bit by bit of these bit by bit。That's it。Okay， that's the algorithm。

Okay， so now let's see why it works。Any questions first about。About the algorithm？Okay。

 so what I wantna， what we want to prove。 So what I'm gonna， So this is the algorithm。

 Now here's a claim。IX， that's good。The probability。That B。An F of x。Outputs， an inverse。

So succeeds in outputing an inverse。Is one minus negligible。It's going to be something。

 Let me just write negligible。In Lambda， and this is going to be something like2 to the minus lambda。

If for set K correctly， is's going be to the mind slamda。Okay。

 so maybe we'll need some constant in front of the K。 We， we'll set K in， in in a minute。

 But that's basically the。The claim。So let's see why is that true。

 Why is it true that the probability that we can， So now fix， fix any good。 So O， so let's move it。

 So when we in the proof。Any good X。So now you have the good X。

Let's see the probability that we predict。A premium image。So first， I want to argue that for。

For every J。Frime like the the。 So O， sorry。 So first， I want to argue that for every coordinate I。

Each x prime I。 So for every J。For every repetition。The prediction， X prime。I J is indeed。

 going be equal。The probability。That x prime Ij， the prediction is actually equal to di bit。

Is with probability， at least half plus。Maybe two epsilon， Let's see。Okay， Li。

 I can look at the notes or we can figure it out and see。嗯。呃。I don't think so。ピア。错过。O， let's， let's。

 O， let's see。 Let's see。 Let's see， proof。So what's the probability， the probability。That x prime。

I J。Let's say， it's different。Let me calculate the problem that it's different。

It means what if the mean to be different。Okay， or， you know what。And probability that it equal is。

1 minus the probability。😮，That， either。哎。Ay。On equix。With our。Jy。Its wrong。Or， sorry， not done。More。

😮，The probability or。A。On F of x。With RJ X or E I。Is wrong。Okay。

 so what's the probability that you write。Its。What， okay， it's。Yeah。To be your right。

With probability one。You're right， for sure。If they're both right。Okay。

 so this is going be a correct prediction for  one J。 I'm just I forget about the repetitions。

 I'm focused on one bit。 the I bit you I equals 1 doesn't matter。 The I bit of x。

And let's look at one time， like without the majority， just a one， one kind of J。When do we。

 we basically， we give the correct output for sure， if both of them are correct。Okay， then for sure。

 we're right。 What is the probability that both of them are correct。Well。

 it's one minus the probability that this is wrong or this is wrong。Now。

 what is the probability that this is wrong or this is wrong。By a union bound。Let me go here。こ can去。

So。By a union bound。That's greater or equal to， sorry， I'm。This is。Greater or equal to。

 And I'm continuing there。1 minus。This probability。So here this or this。

Is at most the probability of this plus the probability of this。So。The probability。That a on F of x。

And R。Is wrong。Plus， the probability。Let a on F of x。And our x or E I is wrong。So， let me。

W add my parameter。Probability over our random R J。Okay， so this is by just the union bound。

Would you said that the probability of x or Y is at most the probability of x plus the probability of y。

 And because there is a minus， then。In the gates。So far， so good。Good， okay， now this。Is at least。

So what's the probability？That this is wrong， this。Thing is， at most。

It's run with probability at most half minus。3 quarters。Okay。

 so it's it's wrong the probability at most。啊。Three quarters。Plus， wellll find out。O。

 let me put that song over two here。 It doesn't matter。 Okay， and this is similar。

Because this is also， if R is random， R， X or yeah， it's also random。Yeah。

 because this is fixed to add any fixed thing a random arm， it's random。So this is also， oh， sorry。

Guys， oh， no， this。Thank you。One quarter minus。Thank you， guys。系啊。Okay， I need you。 Okay， good。

 And this similarly is at most one quarter or minus epsson over 2。

Because it's equal with probably at least three quarter plus episodepson number two。Good， and now。

 so now， So what do we have1-1 quarter，-1 quarter is half。Plus。Excellent plus。Plus， everyone。在次。Okay。

 so each repetition。Is correct with this probability。Okay， great。 So now what do we do。Next thing。

 we want to say， okay， So now if， if this is the probability that it's correct。

And we repeated enough times。Then it we should have So we have concentration bound。

They basically show。So each prediction for fixed X。Each prediction for a fixed x and a fixed I。

 we're now looking a certain coordinate I for a fixed I。Each prediction of x prime I。

Is completely independent。 The randomness is over the Rs， the R J。s chosen completely at random。So。

 we have in。ent kind of K， independent guesses。Each guess is correct with probability。

 half plus epsilon。And now we have concentration bounds in particular， churn off bound。

 which you are struggling with for the homework assignment because I understood that we gave you the wrong bound。

 not the wrong。 It's a right bound。 Just maybe not strong enough for you to answer your question。

 Well， sorry about that。 but probably learn something from our mistakes。 So apologize apologies， but。

 but hopefully you really with the churn off bound now。 So basically， what's left is to argue。

That if we do this enough times that we're gonna be very， very close and we take majority。

 We're gonna be very， very close to the half plus epsilon。

 And therefore the the average is going to be very， very close。 half plus epsilon。

 and therefore the majority will be the right one。可以说的呀。く算ですか。Good。No， I do。

 because even if this is 09。Suppose this is 09。 I need to predict all the bits。 Oh， sorry， yeah。

 even sorry， if it's 。9， it's not。 I need to predict。All the bits。 So for we to predict x correctly。

 I need X1 and x2 and all the bits correctly。So I need to predict each of them with probability。

 like at least 1-1 over a security parameter。So in this a pretty one thats probably super close to one。

And so even if I can put here any other constant， it's not good enough for me。 I。

 I still need the concentration box。Okay， but now what， what turn of bound tells us that I can。

 if I repeat it enough time， I get very cool。 So basically the。

 so now whats remains is to look at turn up bound， so。So there are many of them。

 But the one that can be useful here is the one that said， if you have x1 up to X K independent。

 then the probability。That the sum of X I minus the average of of them。 Let me call it mule。

The average of all these。The probability， sorry， the probability that you're。

So that you expect the average to be like K， like this times K。That's what you expect。

And turn up on tells you， you're very close to the expectation。

So the probability that you're smaller than the expectation minus some T。For every tea。Is a most。

E to the minus。T squared over k。So me。Is the average？Of the sun。Okay， so the probability that you're。

T below the average。Its very small。Okay， it goes down。 So now what we for us， our average。

Is at least we consider the average is at least being K。Times， half。Plus， excellent。

So for us to make a mistake。We're in the regime where T is smaller than K times epsilon， basically。

Because we make a mistake。If the sun is smaller than K2。O， sorry， I did a leap here。 So I。

 I'm thinking my Xes。 Think of the Xs as being。Like， let's think for a second as of the。

Let's think of each X I， in our case， as being correct。Like， it's one， if it's correct。

 the prediction is correct。And 0 otherwise。 Okay， and I want to say at least half of them are correct。

Okay， so I'm going to think of x1 is correct。 is 1。 And then so think of like X I。

Being one is correct or correct prediction。 and X I being 0 is an incorrect prediction。

And now what I want to argue is my correct， I have at least K over two correct prediction more than K over two。

 And then I'm good because I take the majority。So what is the probability that I have less than kilo 2。

Correct predictions。 Well， the average number of correct prediction is this because this each prediction is correct with halfmo epsilon。

So the average， what， the expectation of correct prediction is actually bigger， at least this。

So for me to make a wrong decision。I need to think T as being。Like。K times epsilon。Greater or equal。

 So I'm gonna be incorrect。If I'm at least K times epson away。From the average of the sum。

Cause only if I'm this away。I can go below。The half， the K over2。And the probability that。

 in this way。Is at most。T to the minus T squared。 So K squared epson squared over。K。

I just substituted T squared by K epson squared， which is。异议。For the minus。K times epsilon squared。

So by the way， I'm， I'm not going thinking about it。I'm not sure if this is ear2。 Do you remember。

 the turn of1 doesn't matter。 It's ear2， don't。Yeah good thanks O。Okay， so good。 So now。

 as long as I take K。To be like， let's say， lambmbda over ups on squared， which yeah。

 lambda upsson squared。So if you take K to B lambda over up square。

 well get E to the minus lambda negligible。O。E to the minus s。 That's what we got。判。呀。The turn off。

 Okay， good。 There are many。 Okay， so the question was。

 wasn't the Ch up bound a most duplicative turn up bound。The in the probability handouts。

 we gave a multi appupicative turnout bound。There are many turn off bounds that one can write down Here。

 the most you can work with the most applicative turn off。 If you use that and try to do it。

 it will also work。This is just more easy。 It's like a very additive thing， but。

With the one plus Delta times view， if you play with it， you can work with that as well。But yeah。

 there are many options。 Triob Bo has many forms， and we choose the one that's just the easiest to work with。

呀。I have independence。Because because， okay， so now I'm looking at one coordinate。

And in that coordinate， I'm repeating and experiment K times。And the randomness of the experiment。

Only depends on the R。So in the experiment， I'm choosing our G random。

 That's where the randomness comes in。And the rest is just deterministic。

 I run think of a as as it's deter like if it was randomized the best points。

 like don't like think of that A as like not randomized。 If it was randomized。

 choose the best randoms and fix it。Okay， so everything is the only randomness comes from。From R G。

And， and each time the R J is independent。So I have kind of independent execution。

 That's a great question。 Thank you。 It's actually very important。 Good。

 So the reason that so the question and the great question was。

 Ch up holds only if these are independent。So what are my independent samples。

My independent samples are R J。 So I fix the coordinate I。 I choose R 1。 I choose R 2。

 I choose R 3 up to R K。 These are all independent。

And then I output some detertistic function of them。Some function of the R1 of our2。

 The function tells compute A and R1， compute A and R 1， X or E， I， whatever and。

Compute the X or of the output。And then you do it again。 But when with a different randomness， R 2。

 and then you do it again with a different randomness， independentdepend R 3。

 So all these are completely independent。 And that's why you can use the turn。Great question。

 Other questions。We're good with the case。 Okay， oh， I didn't mention， though。 Okay。

 so there's one other union bound left， which is。Okayk。

 we guess the I bit was probably one minus negligible， but we need to get all of them。

Just gratitude each and every one。 for one man next， put put them together。Okay。

 so as long as you guess the first bit， let's say guess was for right or one mass manageable。

Guess the second bit。 Gus the third bit。And then put all your guesses together。 This is Dx。

And what is the probabilityity that this X is wrong。

 is the probabilityity that there exists according I， which you are right on， which you are wrong on。

And that's by just a union bound， and most the probability that you were wrong in the first plus the probability that you were wrong in the second and so on。

 But each time youre wrong only with natural probability。 And you， you sum Lada times negligible。

 It's neligible。住在此。Okay， so really， the biggest part is to note that you need to do。 Well。

 to think that why we don't have three quarters。 Why the hell am I taking three quarters。

 That requires a leap。 Like， where is that the way to go， because。I'm only offered half。

This is the guarantee to even prove for three4 seems considerably useless。I made this up。

 I don't have that guarantee。 So why do that is a good question。

 But let's say the guarantee was three quarters。 Then the real。

 the only thing you need to understand is that you need to do majority use Ch off found。Questions。

Okay， so we don't before we take a break， I want to spend a moment and tell you。Look。

At the end of the day， I want to prove for half。Now， it seemed that this idea。

Really require the three quarter。Like there's no way to do with that。Because the algorithm B。

 it runs a twice。And then it takes a union bound。So if， if you hire here half per epson。

 you'll get nowhere。You really need more than  three quarters for this to work。Nevertheless。

A very similar algorithm。I'm going show works。With halfle spsilon。Another kind of。Magic。

 I don't know。 It's this is one of my favorite theorems， really， it's like。😊，Okay。

 so we'll take a couple minute break and I'll keep you in suspense。 And after the break。

 I'll show you how this is done。嘿。So， okay， so let's continue。So， going back。To make this work。

 we needed to run a twice。But it's a problem because we run8 twice。

 We're gonna get probability smaller than like， we need both of them to succeed。It seems problematic。

So here is the ridiculous idea。Okay， I've go to her living。They said， you know what， run only onces。

Good， I'm getting the correct reaction。 like， what， indeed， what， how are we going get。

 So this is our algorithm。We don't want to run a more than once because it's a problem for each iteration。

 Let's just， So how am I going to change it。嗯Let's know。Let's just compute。 Let's run a once。

But now you're saying， wait， what about we need this， too。Well， how going do this？Here is their idea。

Guess。Let's guess it。Seems completely ridiculous。 I like your smiles。 I' like， are you kidding me。

 Yeah， indeed， So let's guess B J at random and hope。we guess it right to be like x dot R gen， maybe。

Now， this is like a terrible idea。Because for this to work， actually to us all of them right。

And there's a lot of them。There was camp。So if I did， if I suppose I guess all everything right。

 Okay， suppose miraculously。I， for each day， I guess this and。Was correct， magic。would be fine。

 The exact same protocol would work because， you know， this would be always correct。

 This is probably half plus epsilon or Epson over 2。 I take majority。 I the majority， I mean。

 the XO will be correct probably half plus epsilon over 2。

 and I can still take majority and everything would work。😊。

But what's the probability that I get them all correctly， Two to the minus scale， forgetget it。

K is like bigger than than lambmbda。 It's like lambmbda over up on square。 Forget it。

Never gonna get them all correctly。So what's their idea。The idea is the following。 You think。

 you know what。Not clear。 We need to guess K independent Rs。What if。So basically。

 they they say the following。 you know， let's guess the first R。 So let's choose R1 at random。

This happens with probability health。Then let's choose our to it random。And guess。Also。

 probably half。 So one quarter。 pretty bad。 It's not looking good。However。If I guessed our1 dotx。

And our two not X correctly， correctly。 Now I have for free。Our 1。X or R 2 dot x。So。

So here is their idea。Their ideas the function， let's， for our one， let's guess X。That are one，A2。

 Choose a random R 2。 guesss x dot R2。Butanana。They say， oh， wait， look， we just。

 if we guess them correctly。We just got X dot。An X or R 2。For free。Because this is nothing but。

That's thought R one。Exor。X dot R2， we know this， and we know this。So we got this for free。

More generally。Wewe guess。If we do this， al times。Yeah， we guess correctly with probability。

 everything is correct。With promote the only one over two to the out。This is half， half。

 half al timess。Seems bad。But， we got two。Oh。Linear equations out of this。So， for every。Jy subal。

There's two of subset of valve。I have a linear equation for x dot。R J， where R J just is just Xor of。

RJ J andJ。受。I can take any subset of these， of these Rs。S them together。那他还不。EInner product。

Because this is nothing but。啊。X or of x dot Rj。For J and J。And this， I have。

 something I guess correctly。So， basically， their observation is。I I。

If I guess only L guesses correctly， I get two to L equations。Basically say， oh， we need K equations。

😮，No problem。Like L。To be long cave。So what will algorithm be do。So， here is the idea。

For a new algorithm B。Trying to write it here。So we'll have both of them。We're basically the same。

Good， so here's my B。For every eye。For every。Bti bit。Here's， oh， you know， actually。

 not even for every eye， sorry or for for every eye。 Here's what I'm gonna to do。

The first thing I'm going to do。Is。Set L could be log K。Where K is going to be more or less as above。

 I may need to change some concept。 but think of it for now as like a。Ldon over。Eppsilon squared。

I may change it。 Well， I have it in the minutes。But。嗯嗯嗯。Seems to be the same。 Okay。

 so that's log of this case。Okay。No。I'm going choose it random。A randomandom R 1 up to R L randomly。

And I'm gonna to guess。X dot R 1， x R2 and so on and so forth。Okay， and guess。嗯，X。啊，那不对。B。

J is equal to x。 guess at random B J。 But this think of it as equal to x dot R G。Okay。

 so I' basically， I'm going to choose a random BJ。But I'm gonna to hope。That maybe it's this one。

Of course， I I guess it only probably have。But now， note。With probability1 over K。

All these guesses are correct。Okay， so let's keep in mind。With probability，1 over k。All guesses。

A correct。Fantastic。😊，No。If the guesses are correct， I'm going to invert。Okay。

I'm going to show you if the guess are correct。 I'm going to invert with high probability。

Not even that high。 I'm in was I dont know。 I think its to work out to be something like a quarter。

But， fine。I'm going to invert with some good probability。That's what I'm going to show you。Okay。

 now that's what we're gonna focus on。 We're going to show how with this probability。

I'm going to invert。You know what's sorry。 Let me see it again with this probability。Yeah。

 so basically， Im say with this probability or with one over 4K， I'm going to invert。 That's。

 that's all I'm going to show you。那。If you're， you know， you may be upset now。

 because I told you for every ex good， I'm going invert with really high probability。

 And I'm telling you actually as with this probability。If you're offended by my lying to you。

 don't be because you can repeat this。So， if， indeed。I'm going to show you a procedure that succeeds。

 This is not about X for a fixed X。 Take any X in good， for any fixed X in good。

I'm going to give you an algorithm that succeeds with probability at one over 4K。That inverts。

That specific act。So now repeat this algorithm many， many times。One of them will invert for you。

Repeated K times lambda K lambda times。Okay， one of them with overwhelming probability。

 one of them will invert for you。Okay， so it's enough to really show。

That forgiven for any ex and good。I can invert it with probability 1 over 4K or whatever。Is it yeah。

 we're okay with inverting just with small probability。

 You're not gonna be upset about the overwhelming。 You can do the repetition。O。

 and it's in the notes， by the way， so。Also， in the in the website。

 there are really beautiful notes by Noah that we put there。 He has。

 Hes a fantastic teacher agent Cornell。 And he was a postdoc here。

 And he wrote like really beautiful， beautiful notes， Very， very。😊，In kind of a lot of details。

 he didn't the go had been the full proof。It's very long to write。

 And he wrote like everything there or almost。 So I encourage you。

 if you want to kind of an in depth， look at his notes。 And he also just writes beautifully。Okay。

So let's go back to our algorithm。 So we， we choose these with probability。1 over2 to the L。

Which is K。 We guess all of them correctly。Think of the case that you guess correctly。

 That's what you should have in mind。 Okay， because in that case。

 we're going to succeed in inverting。Now， what am I going to do， So this， I guess。

 now I'm going to apply run a compute。A on the other。 So a and F of x。And R J。 Xor。EI O。Sorry， now。

Sorry， sorry。 Now for every eye。Not， O， so this， I guess， once and for all now for。B eye。Now。

 I'm going to do bit by bit for every bit I， I'm going to compute a。An epiveex with。

For every I and every jade。In L， I'm going to compute B， J prime。

 or I guess I should call an now I J， which is a。F of x。Xor， sorry。

 with the randomness are J X or E I。So now， for every bit。I'm going now look at R J， X or E， I。

For every bit， I am going look at R J and for every J。 I'm gonna to look at at R J X or E I。

 because I want the I to bit now。And now， I'm gonna to let。So I compute this， and I let。

A BJ prime or B， I J。Timeme， just be。So， and I let x。 this is the B。 Now I let x prime。B the be。Jy。

Exor。With。BIG。Pme。O， so。I， again， I chose these Rs once and from。I guessed the inner product。

 this is a with I。I guess the inner product。 now what I'm doing for every bit of X that I want to guess that I want to learn。

For every ja here。Im gonna。I'm gonna run。 I'm gonna use the A。An R J X or E I。

So here is crops with probably half plus epson over two or whatever。This is cross one， Let's say。

 let's say I succeeded。And then I'll have the xO is correct with probability have Po epsilon over 2 or whatever。

I'm going to do a majority。 And then， for every day。So， first this。Then。

X prime I is just the majority。啊，不。X， I。Prime 1 up to x prime O。No， sorry。Oops， sorry。

 let me fix this because now I have only L。 L is not enough for me。For every J， that's a subset。

I'm gonna run look at our。J。So for every subset， sorry for。Sid， Jane， I have K of them。

For every suby。I'm gonna。Look at。Prediction on R J， which is just the x of the R of the r's in J。

X or with the I。That's BJ。And then。I'm gonna。This is B， I J prime。And then， my X I。J。

 the Js prediction set J prediction is this B I J prime。Xor with this Bj。 This Bj is just。Bja Exor。

BJJ andJ。So basically， I only have L options， but I'm getting tour a lot of them or care of them by taking all the subsets。

So。I took this subset of R Js and， and I ran A， and then I took this subset， the same subset。

Of the Rjs。Here to get。My said BJ， with is， which is Xor of the。Of the bees in that subset。

And that's my prediction。 And now I'm just going to take the majority。Made it majority。Of X。

 I prime J。Over all， the suby。Okay， so basically， the idea is。You only。

 you don't take ours completely。 You， You take only。儿。

And the actual Rs that you run that algorithm with is all the。Xhors。

 the all the subset exhors of these are。You take all the subset X sorts of these Rs。

Britain as before， but with that。And the Bs， the X that are。Subsa J。Which is， again。

 our subsidy is just。X， or， R， J， James。Said， Jay。That we know from。We don't need a for that。

 we guess。Okay， so x dot this。We can compute。It just the x or of x dot。RJ， for every Jane， that's it。

So this， we can compute on our own just x dot R J and the R J X or E I。 We use A。

 so we use A only once。Per trial。Okay， so before we use it twice。That's a problem。

 We can't afford that。 Now， we're going to use a only once。We guess ourselves。But don't worry。

 we didn't need to guess care of them。 We guessed only all of them。

And now the armss are not just these。 That's not enough。We need Ks。😮。

But we take all the possible subsets。 That's ours。And the x dot dot。The inner the X of these Rs。

 This we can compute from our guests。And with the exle with a yeah， I， will use a。That's it。

Any see an issue with this。呀。哎，你看那个是。time， you could use like independence of what like like。

Let me George too can？Exactly， exactly。 The problem is very nice。

 But these ours are no longer independent。Because， of course， they're not independent。

 I'm telling you， like， if R1 and R 2 is in this， my new R has R 1， X or R2。I mean。

 these are independent。 but the Rs that I'm actually losing。For the algorithm。

The Rs that I'm actually using for the algorithm。It's not these ours， it's。

The Rs that I'm using are all the Rjs。For every day in out。Which is Xor。These are the arms。Of course。

 I'm not independent。Okay， I mean， R of one comma 2 is R going X or R 2。

 What's less independent than that。So I can't just turn off。So why does it work。Let let me tell you。

 it works。But you can't choose turn enough。So， I want to argue not。They're not all independent。But那。

Everything is lost。We have。Some kind of independence here。Anybody see what we have。Exactly， have。

Pretty good conditions here。 What are the conditions where we know of these are Jesuss that theyre what we call pairwise independence。

Meaning。Every。Every。Two of them are independent。So they're not altogether independent。

 But if you take any subset， J 1 and J 2。R of J1 and R of J2 will be independent。

So if you just look at two， they're independent。 If you look at3， no longer。

But every two are independent。Turns out。That we also have a concentration bound for only pairwise independent。

Ours， what is， what is that called， What concentration bound do we have for。Pairwise independence。

 Any know。Tbuchv， exactly。周。😡，I is exactly the same。 But instead of using the turn off bound。

Which where is it that we used it yeah？Instead of using the Ch bound here， we use the chbuchav bound。

Now， the chipitude bound is not。As strong as the turn up bound。 So when we use the turn up bound。

 we got。You know， the probability that you're below。You're far from the mean is like。

 exponentially small。Okay， with chby chip， the probability that you're far from the mean is not going to be like exponential in T。

 It's gonna to be something like one over。Theear， let's write it。 I don't remember it。 Yeah， so。Yeah。

 so the the probability that you're an additive factor away。From the average。Is了。Let me write it。

So Cheby chefs tell you that the probability。Let's say you have pair rise independent。X。Jay。

That you'。Far from the average。By more than。T， O， here are the way I wrote it。

 So maybe I should be consistent。If you take， okay， if you take the average like。

To be consistent with there， if you take the average over N。The O， let me write it like this。So。

 the probability。That the sum of X J minus if your delta n away， J Dta K。J goes for one to K。

 If you're Delta K away。From the average。Happens with probability at most。

Not two to the minus K And not exponentially small in K， but one over Delta。啊，For。Delta K。Squared。

Times。诶。K， I think。嗯没。Yeah， so basically the probability。That you are away from the average by some。

 let's say， constant Delta times k。Is one over。4 times this delta k squared times k。That's。

 that's what you get， So。Away from it with not tiny， tiny probability， but pretty small probability。

And then， and， and so that's why， you know。嗯。嗯。Second。Oh， okay， good， Google， Sorry， O。

 that's will confused me。 So K， if we take。We need to take。嗯。哦。Yeah， so basically。

 if you want to take。So， this。The mu we get is like half plus epsilon， I guess， over two times。

Times K。And so we need this。To be， at least。Like this。 Okay， we're bad。 it's bad for us。

 If this is bigger， then here we need epsilon。K over 2。Because if it's to be bad。

 we need to be kind of below the half k。 So we need to lose like the epson K over two that we gained。

So this needs to be， you think of Delta K to B epsilon K over 2。

 So think of Delta as being epsilon over 2。诶。Yeah， so okay， good。 So， or okay。 So basically。

 what you have here is one over 4 epsilon K over  two squared times k。 And then you just make sure。

You want to make sure this is smaller。 I know smaller than a half or smaller however you want。

 Let's say half and then repeat。 So you just take K to B。I don't know。

 I guess K to the third needs to be at least one over constant times epsilon。

 like constant constant over epsilon。Yeah， so just like K to the third needs to be at least。

1 over some constant。Over， I guess that's on screen， something like that。

So you just need to do enough repetition。That's kind of the， the point。O， and then again。

 if you don't happy to do it again。So really， the only idea actually， you don't need to get too much。

 You just need to get logged。 and then you don't rely on， and churn off。 you rely on chbucha。

那应该个是发过呗。Okay， so that's of what I'm going to say this week about PR Gs。 And next week。

 we'm going to show how to do encryption that secure against many messages。 So far。

 we just had secure encryption against the long message。But we're gonna need to encrypt many。

 many messages。 So that's what we're gonna to head next week。

