# MIT【中英⚡自动机、可计算性理论和复杂度｜MIT6.045 2015 Automata, Computability and Complexity】 p05 P5 feb24 -BV1Dao8YQEEn_p5-

ok。Started。嗯。Okay， I have a warm up video today。Scroll up， oh yeah。

I'm worried that that's going to screw it up。 It's done that in the past， sorry。嗯。嗯哼。

Yeah they did a good job hammerming it up but all right so that's what we're going to see today basically the touring machine all right so a few administrative things sorry for those of you who came late that they missed the video I'll send the link to it but so PSet one is due tomorrow PSet two will be out soon I apologize that you'll just have a little less than two weeks for PSet two but we're just still you know a little bit crunched because of because of the snow closure。

So so last time Robin gave a guest lecture and as I mentioned an email。

 Robin will be giving a few more lectures but he told you about context free languages。

 which are like which were sort of our final waytation on the way to computational universality。

 so what is context free language， well it's a set of strings that can be generated by a context free grammar。

 what's a context free grammar or what's a collection of production rules， which we called them that。

You know， where you start with some initial symbol and then。

You can have a bunch of replacements that you're allowed to make as many times as you want。

 so whenever you see an A， you can replace it by AC wherever you see a C so you could replace it by nothing and so forth okay and then we look at the set of all the finite strings that you could generate by applying these these rules a finite number of times and that that's what we mean by a contextfr language okay so what you saw last week was that context free grammars can express certain concepts that cannot be provably cannot be expressed by any regular expression that there are contextfr languages that are provably not regular languages okay。

A standardard example is that language there right basically anything where you need sort of the same amount of something on either side like an equal number of A's as B's right this will be context free because you know you can just have some production rules that just throw out like an A on the left and a B on the right and keep doing that as many times as you want right you know until you stop you're allowed to do that okay but we also proved using you know the pigeonhole principle or using the pumping lemma that this language L here is not regular right so contextfree languages are more powerful right you know because Robin also showed you that every regular language is also context-fr one right so context free can simulate regular but not vice versa。

Not in general， okay。On the other hand， there are also examples of languages that are not context free。

 there anyone remember an example of that？What's an example of a non context free language？Yeah。

Awesome， that was intentional。NoOkay， so okay， yeah。😊，So okay， so you know。

 so we could just add one little thing like you know。

 a third symbol and then this language is provably not context free。

 so there's a pumping lemma for context free languages you know by which you can prove that this sort of thing is not context free so I'm not I think that Robin did not get to that last week。

Oh excellent excellent okay great， so you covered this in recitation so already you know context free languages you already you run into some limitations pretty quickly because you know you would think that this is a pretty simple language although know I don't know of any human language that has anything like this in it where you have to have equal numbers of three things whereas there are certainly human languages that have constructions like like this where you know you have to balance your parentheses or you for every what's a good example of this yeah so you create you know when you're speaking in English sentence you create subordinate causes and then however many causes you create you have to close up each one at the end。

 so you can say，😊，ally reallyally complicated sentences where indeed you tax the listener's memory because because the listener has to remember sort of all the parentheses that you opened up in your sentence in order to know in order to remember that you're closing all of them as I did just now。

So context free languages can express concepts that do require you a lot of memory you。

 if you're a human being trying to listen to it， that's， you know。

 but context free languages are a pretty good model for most human languages， right， for English。

Things like that also for programming languages right and you if you take a compiler's course right it's all about you know how do you parse a context free language right。

 how do you take a string that belongs to a context free language and how do you work backwards to find the sequence of production rules that that gave rise to that string okay and you know and in fact。

 you know you could have context free languages that you know that are not uniquely parsed right you know the same sentence you know could have been you could have multiple valid grammatical interpretations okay you you know so we all know examples of that okay。

So。Okay， so last week you also saw pushdown automata。

 which are the sort of the you could basically say you know， an analogy。

Regular languages are to find an automata as context free languages are to push down automata okay so push down automata or like the machines whose power is to recognize a context free language and a pushdown automaton know as you saw last week is basically just a finite it automaton so it reads its input from left to right but it also has a stack it also has the ability to take symbols and push them onto a stack you know and then pop them off of the stack and then you know only accept。

 say if it finds the right things from the stack and that allows it to recognize languages like this one because you as you read A' is you can push A' is onto your stack and then you can pop them off as you read the B's and only accept if。

the right number of A's come out that match the number of B's okay so it's so a stack is an unbounded memory you know。

 but it's an unbounded memory of a very very limited kind because know you can only read the topmost symbol off of it okay。

So okay， but there' there's also， you know， an important difference between the two cases。

 which is that。We saw that there's deterministic and there's non deterterministic finite automata。

 and they recognize exactly the same set of languages， whereas that's not the case。

With pushdown automata， so in general to recognize a contextfr language we need a nondeterministic pushdown automain right and that's in general more powerful than a deterministic pushdown automain there are languages that can be recognized by you know that are context free or equivalently can be recognized by an NPDA。

 but that cannot be recognized by a deterministic pushdown automain okay and this will well it'll probably you know be on PSZ2 okay。

 but。You know okay， so so the equivalentvalence， you know the fact that every context free language can be recognized by some NPpDA by some nondeterministic pushdown automain and conversely that for every nondeterministic pushdown automain。

 you know there is a context free language you that you or the language that it accept is a context free language。

 say are these are two more theorems that that what has to prove。

 you know I'm not going to do the proofs in class because they're kind of boring you if you understood the proofs that you know regular expressions or equivalent to know NDFAs to nondeterministic final automata。

 it's very， very similar to that except that you sort of have to add in you the pushdown capability so you can you won't you need to know the proofs for this class if you're。

You know， curious about them， they're in the Ss or book， okay。All right。

 so that's mostly what I wanted to say about that， but you know now we might wonder。

 you know given that context-fr languages are still so limited know that they can't you know even recognize this A to the end。

 B to the N C to the N language okay so let's now just define a more powerful model of computation。

 let's say that can recognize this language and now now comes sort of the interesting part okay because know a priorityi。

 you know you might have imagined that you we're just going to need an infinite sequence of more and more powerful models of computation in which case that this could be a really long course you know like imagine like this week you know I would give you a model that can recognize this language but that won't be able to recognize the language A to the N B to the N。

 C to the N D to the N and then you know next week we'll have to do。😊。

But then a language that doesn't have the capability for recognizing you know。A to the N。

 B to the N C to the N D to the N E to the N okay and so forth。

 right this could get really boring really fast okay but fortunately that's not how it works so the amazing discovery you I guess in the you in the 1930s or so that you we sort of take for granted today but was not not obvious at the time that this was going to be true is that once you add in enough capability to your computer you sort you get past a threshold okay and this we call the threshold of universality and then at some point you become able to do anything that you can do with sort of any physically reasonable computing device that anyone has ever been able to think of and you just have a single device that sort of captures all of it。

😊，and that's of course， what we now call the computer。😊，You know and look。

 I mean you know you know it's very easy to sort of forget you know that this sort of you know sort of didn't have to be true。

 I mean when I first you know learned what programming was you know when I was an adolescent right you know the first thing that I wanted to do was okay well then you know what okay that's great that you can use basic or whatever to make games but what about making a more powerful programming language right you know I mean you know basic just has these few commands right you know you know if you wanted to make even better games than probably you know you would need a better programming language that would let you do things that could never be done in basic right and you could imagine you know an infinite sequence of more and more powerful programming languages except you know how would you create the programming languages right it seems like there's an infinite re so。

So that sort of confused me and you know， and it was sort of mindwelling to find out that no actually。

 you anything you can do with any programming language could in principle。

 know already be done with this know stupid you know Apple basic at the time that I saw or GW basic。

 I don't know if any of you have ever seen these or still remember what they are， okay but。But you。

 but in principle， they can do everything， except that they can only address a tiny amount of memory。

 but that's a technical issue。Okay，All right， so so let's come to the early 1930s， I guess。

 so Alan Touring is 22 know he's the same age as you basically he an undergraduate at King's College in Cambridge and was well he was thinking about several things。

 one is that。He was was he wanted to make you a really big contribution to math。

 you he was very impressed but you know he had a friend named David Chamer nowun who had solved an open problem in a very。

 very simple way， I don't know if any of you know what it is。

 so does anyone know what a normal number is。So okay， this is this is a。This is a neat story。

 so a normal number is let's say a number where when you write it out in decimal。

 then every sequence of every finite sequence of digits occurs in the limit with the same frequency that it would occur with if we just generated digits at random。

Okay， so all right。Here's pie。It is know very， very widely conjecture that pi is a normal number okay which would mean that you know there's first of all it would mean that as you go out further and further there's about 10% zeros。

 10% ones， 10% twos and so forth you and it would further mean that if you looked at two digit sequences there's like1% of each one in the limit as you go out further right and that every possible sequence of three digits。

 three consecutive digits occurs you know1100th of the time and so forth right that's one of these things where it's like how could it not be true right no one has proved that pi satisfies this property in fact here's a mind blowing fact okay for all that anyone can prove today after some finite point you know the decimal expansion of pi。

consistsists of zeros and ones。Okay。That you know that sounds completely stupid， right， you know。

 and it is in some sense， right， but no one has a proof that would rule that out okay。😊，So。

So actually maybe 50 years ago or something， John Nash was a math professor here。

 know you saw the movie and sorry so here's a story that this's not in the movie he apparently he gave a midterm exam here where in an analysis class that had four questions each for 25% of the grade and one of the questions was prove that Pi is a normal number and he said his thinking was that you know there must be some undergrad here who's not going to realize that this is a famous open problem so they won't have the mental block that everyone else has and they'll just come up with a proof as it happened。

 none of them did， but this problem remains open， but if any of you want to solve it you know instant a+ okay。

But all right， but to say there was a problem can you find just you know an explicit number which is normal。

 I mean it you know it's not hard to see that if you just generated a number at random that in some sense it has you know probability one of being a normal number right like a random number will be normal。

 but can you give it explicit example of a transcendental number which you can prove is normal okay so this was a question that was you know this is one example。

 this sort of of question that was floating around Cambridge the other Cambridge at that time so does anyone know an example of such a number？

All right。So I can show you what Alan Thoruring's friend came up with， right。

 it's a forehead slapper， when you say it。Here's what he said heres here's my number eight and this is now called Champer nouns number we'll just take0。

012345678910，1112。Okay， and then you know， and then you just you can verify。

 which is a pretty easy exercise that this is indeed a normal number， okay。

 so touring was kind of like you know， I need to do something this important。

And so I think it's fair to say that he did。😊，So。Okay， and then。

The other thing is you know if you've seen the recent movie about him。

 then you know this Touring had a friend in high school Christopher Morcom who died of tuberculosis and touring was very you incredibly depressed about this and was ruminating about you know what is a mind you know is there any sense in which Morcom's mind know be said to survive death or you know could a mind be simulated by a machine。

 he was worried about you know kinds of things like that， and then there was。

There was something called Hilbert's and Shiing's problem， which was。So David Hilbert。

 who was one of know， I guess the greatest mathematicians of the time of all time gave a famous speech in the year 1900 where he listed 23 great math problems for the next century and there were hugely influential。

 most of the problems have since been solved， where or at least the well-defined ones have。

 know one of them that hasn't been was as the Rimon hypothesis。

 and we may talk about a couple other of Hilbert's problems in this course。

 because some of them are directly relevant to the course。

 but his first problem was maybe the most audacious of all of them。

 and his first problem was like the metamathematical question， you could say， which is just。

Just give a mechanical procedure for just deciding the truth or falsehood of any mathematical statement。

Okay so you know that's kind of the problem that you know if you solve it you you know you don't have you never have to solve any other math problem again。

 right， just you know give you know give a you know describe how you would build a machine where you just feed in some slips of paper that encode you know that you want to know whether the Rimon hypothesis is true and then you turn the crank a little bit and then out would come。

 you know， yes， the Rimon hypothesis is true right and the machine would always be correct。😊，Okay。

 so that was that was， you know， that was Hilbert's modest request and you know， and you know。

 it was not， you know， I mean， I mean， you know， he sort of。

You know he believed that there ought to be such a machine and that would be like the completion of mathematics。

 okay， but you know， but then you know in order to answer his question。

 you first had to answer a more basic one， which is you know what exactly do we mean by a machine right what do we mean by a mechanical procedure okay so？

😊，So in 1931 Gerdel already made a major advance on this sort of question。

 we're going to circle back later to what Gerdel did。

 but you Touring was certainly well aware of what of Gerdel's incompleteness theorem which was very new at that time but the incompleteness theorem still didn't answer this question of could there be a machine that just sorts all the mathematical statements into the true or false ones or the provable or disprovable or neither provable nor disprorovable or whatever。

Someone calling us okay。All right。So the first thing that Touring had to do is come up with a notion of what we mean in general by a computing machine。

 okay and you can read you know so I have a link from the stellar site to Touring's paper from 1936 which is actually very well worth looking at。

 I mean not that you know the technical parts of it are kind of you know boring and you know obsolete anyway。

 but know but the conceptual parts of the paper， especially I think section9 of the paper where he sort of explains the intuition for you know how he came up with the touring machine。

 basically it's really very well worth reading。So there's a couple of ways that we can approach this。

The first one， you know， a little bit ahistorical is to just start with the finite automaa that we've already seen and ask。

 yeah， what is it that we should add to them， know if we want to make them more powerful？Okay。

 so we've seen， you know， a finite automain is basically just a machine with some finite number of internal states。

 you know， that starts at the left end of its input and then it reads the input from left to right。

 and each time it reads an input symbol， you know， it can transition to a new state depending on。

It's current state， depending on what symbol it's reading。

 and then at the end it can either accept or reject。Okay， so now。

What is it that we should add to a finite automaton。

 What is a finite automaton missing that a full computer ought to have。Memory， yeah， well， okay。

 you could say in some sense， you know， there is a memory， there's this thing up here， right。

 but what's the problem with it？Yeah，'s right right， well the final automaton， you know。

 it has this know memory down here， which is you know， which is like a read， write memory。

 but which is finite， which is bounded， yeah。Yeah， exactly it has no unbounded writeriable memory right。

 that's the first issue right so you know it has an unbounded sort of read only memory。

 this thing up here right and it's got a bounded readr memory yeah。Yeah， exactly。 So okay。

 so right so so we could say that you know you're allowed to be writing symbols as you move from left to right。

 but that's that's pretty weak also right because you know if you're just writing symbols。

 but you know you can never go back and revisit the stuff that you've written right Well actually you know that sort of thing does have a name It's called a finite state transducer Okay it's something that is allowed to spit out symbols as it's going from left to right but you know。

 but then it can never reread the symbols that that it's written。

 So it's like you know you know from its perspective。

 you know what's the point of writing them you know。

 you never get to see them again Okay so know we better you know allow it to。read the you。

 to reread the things it's written， okay now you know you could say， you know。

 you get to go from left as well as right， but you know you are only a you know。

 but you're still not allowed to write symbols right so you can。So you can define something。

Call it a two way finite automain。 Okay， you can define， you know。

 if you like a finite automain that's allowed to move left and right， but it's still， you know。

 only allowed to read symbols and not allowed to write symbols。 Okay。

 now there's an interesting theorem， which Ill。Maybe I'll give it as extra credit on PSet2 if anyone wants to think about it。

It turns out that even a two way fine automaton can still recognize only the regular languages。Okay。

 so even if you can go to the left as well as to the right， you know。

 if you only have the ability to read， then you know that doesn't really help you。

 doesn't let you recognize any more languages Okay， fine， but let's say that。

You can go both ways on the tape so you can you're allowed to move left。

 you're allowed to move right， you're allowed to read and you're allowed to write okay。

 and furthermore， you know， we'll say that you know you're not even just limited to the memory that's。

you're not limited like like if your string is end bits long， your input string， you know。

 let's say is a string of end bits， you're not you're not even just limited to those end bits。

 okay you're allowed to have scratch space okay by the way。

 we'll have the same policy for the midterm you know you could have as much blank paper as you want okay。

So so you're allowed to go sort of off to the side if you want， okay。

 and a standard way that we we could model this is to say you have a special symbol you know that marks the beginning or the end of the input。

 okay， I will off and just write that as a pound sign okay and then off to the sides。

 let's say to both sides， if you like， there's。啊啊。There's just an unbounded number of zero squares and you're allowed to use these as a scratch space。

Okay， then there's one other thing that we have to take care of with you know defining a touring machine。

 okay， which is you know could like with these rules。

 you know that I've talked about or you can go left and you can go right， you know， what could very。

 you know， you could accept or you could reject but what else could happen。Use a new street。Yeah。

 yeah， you can produce a new string， right， but yeah。Yeah。

 it's very possible that your machine will just run forever and will never halt right， for example。

 if we said here's your initial state， you know Q0， now regardless of what happens， you know。

 I want you to write a zero okay so here's let me show you what a touring machine looks like okay you know it looks like a finite automaton except you know we can add some additional abilities。

 okay like we can say， if you are reading a zero。Okay so I'm going to label an arrow by these notations that says。

 if you are reading a zero， then I want you to write a zero and go to the right。

I move one square to the right。Okay， and now。And you know。

 transition to this state that that's what the arrow means， okay I can say。If you're reading a one。

 then you know， write replace it by a zero， overwrite it with a zero。

 okay so you can overwrite symbols that are on the tape by new symbols and go to the right okay and transition to this state okay。

 and then in this state I can say if you're reading a zero then。

Overwrite it with a one and go to the left。and。If you are。Reading a one。

 then leave it a one and go to the left。Okay， so what's this machine going to do anyone？Yeah。

 its just going to keep going left and right， left and right forever and it'll just whatever two squares you started on。

 it'll overwrite whatever was on that squares by 01。

 and then it'll just you know keep looping forever with keeping them 01 okay so this touring machine here will never halt。

Okay or you know sometimes I'll just say it loops okay。

 although you know a touring machine that if I say a touring machine loops。

 I don't necessarily mean that' you know it loops through the same finite number of states forever。

 so for example you know what's a touring machine that runs forever but it's never in the same configuration twice。

How about， yeah？Yeah exactly， you can just have one that just keeps going to the right， you know。

 if you read a zero then write a one and go to the right。

 if you read a one then write a one and go to the right okay you imagine you know I start this off at some position it's just going to keep writing ones going to the right forever。

Okay。And okay。Okay， but you know， unfortunately， you know。

 it's going to be very very hard to avoid this problem， you know。

 some of you know this when you're programming， you know， yes。

 your program can get into an infinite loop， okay， it would be great if we could detect when that's going to happen。

 you know we'll come back to that point later。But you know in any case you know while a touring machine can run forever。

 it can also stop okay so with find an automata right it was very very easy to you know and also with pushdown automata it was very very easy to sort of define the stopping condition because you know it stops just whenever it reaches the right end of the string it's you know and at that point it has to be either accept or reject okay with a touring machine you a touring machine can be moving all over the place it can be going left going right and so we have to say explicitly you know when it's time for the machine to stop so。

嗯。So we can say， you know， like so all do is。I'll just have special arrows that say accept or reject okay。

 so I can say if you're in this state and you're reading a one， then halt and accept。Okay。

 or I can say。If you're in this state and you're reading a zero， then haul up and reject。Okay。

 so you're allowed to do things like that。All right。

So now I'm not going to write out like a formal definition in terms of topples。

 but this is what a toring machine is， okay， it's a finite automaton where the transitions between states are labeled。

By symbol that you're reading from the tape， okay what symbol should then be written on that square of the tape。

 which direction you should move in on the tape， left or right， or this can be just accept or reject。

Okay。That' clear。Okay， so how did Touring sort of come to this definition， well， he was you know。

 thinking about computers， which does anyone know what the wordcomp meant at that time？It meant。

 you know， yeah。Exactly a met a person right you know。

 so like when you read his paper he's talking about computers。

 he means people who you know were generally like these these just rooms full of women at the time who were hired to just do computation you know to carry out computations and he was thinking about can you you know can we can we formalize。

 you know what they're doing， you know when they when they're computing right you know you know what it means to carry out you know as just a specific sequence of instructions and so so basically you know the way that he thought about it was that you know a human being who's doing a computation has。

A you know， of course being human we all have only a finite amount of memory hence the finite state machine okay but you know we can have lots and lots of scratch paper available to us right you know and a touring machine is often sort of described as you know an infinite paper tape okay but you know it doesn't have to be actually infinite in fact。

 you know after any finite amount of time you will only ever have used a finite amount of the tape why is that anyone？

Well。Because it's because at each time step you you can only visit one more tape square than you've visited before right so after T time steps you can only have you have seen T squares of the tape so really all the infiniteness means you know is that sort of there's as much tape as you want there's as much scratch paper available to you as you're going to need which you know we can question that assumption later and we will when we come to complexity theory okay but for now we'll just assume that you've got as much scratch tape you know you have as much memory available as you might need。

 which is sort of the simplest assumption okay。And then。And then touring says， basically。

 what is a piece of paper， right， Well， it's this big two dimensional surface， you know。

 on which you could write symbols。Like stuff like this， right， but then you know， he says。

First of all， you know， and this is something that's sort of， you know。

 was maybe obvious to us today。 it was obvious to him at the time， but you know。

 this required argument because first of all， we can discretize things right。

 We can assume that this paper is actually graph paper okay。

and that there's exactly one symbol written in each square right and why is it okay to assume that well。

 you know， I mean？😊，You know like if you're just drawing on a piece of paper right there's a whole continuum of different things you can draw but you know you can't you know you can't actually make out a whole continuum of different things that are drawn when you stare at the paper right you know like there are only you know there's only a finite number of alphabet symbols that you're going to be you're going to be able to distinguish by looking at a piece of paper right and the proof of that is well it's the pigeonhole principle okay that you if we had an infinite number of symbols then there would have to be two symbols that would be you know arbitrarily close to each other right and you know you know I mean already with the finite number of symbols that we have it can be very easy to confuse an eye for a one or you lowercase L for a one or whatever right we already get you know。

U。You know or you know the way that I draw you know A's sometimes people think may think that they're O's okay so people already get confused right and so we can't really hope to discriminate more than a finite number of symbols you know so he says so you know so let's you know and if we have only a finite number of symbols we can imagine that each one is written on some particular square on a tape or sorry on a piece of paper okay then he says that the well the two dimensional character of paper is clearly not essential you know so we can just simplify things by imagine it by imagining that it's one dimensional that's actually a claim that requires proof and。

呃。In fact， one can go back later and justify that claim， you know。

 how would one justify such a claim？Yeah， basically you know the way that you know you justify one of these things that you would have to prove that okay anything that you can do with a two dimensional touring machine you can also do with a one dimensional touring machine right that the one can simulate the other okay and one can indeed prove that you know maybe you know later in this lecture we'll sketch some examples of how these sorts of simulations go okay but he says for simplicity so let's just imagine a one dimensional an unbounded one dimensional tape on which symbols are written and then you know we imagine the human being。

 the computer who's who's looking at you know and then。😊，He says， well look。

 you know a human being can only look at a finite number of symbols at a time it's not like we can encompass everything right your eye is focused on one particular thing and in fact we might as well just simplify things further and assume that you're only looking at one symbol at a time you've got you and once again one can say you if you're allowed to look at a finite you at1 symbols at a time that's not going to change well what you can do right that's again a claim that has to be justified with a proof okay but and then you're allowed to overwrite symbols and then you can move around okay but he didn't want to assume the ability to just jump anywhere okay because how exactly do you do that I mean let's say that how you instantaneously jump to some you know。

Part of the paper tape that was 10 miles away so he says okay so you could move along you know one square at a time that assumption actually would get relaxed later today our computer memories are not generally organized like this。

 they're organized as what we call random access memories or ras okay which do allow you to jump around but but as you get to you know as some of you may know know you've studied architecture that as you try to have a bigger and bigger memory on your computer you face the problem of memory latency you the fact that the speed of light is finite eventually does come and bite you it takes time to reach the faraway parts of your memory so so with the touring machine we sort we sort of don't have to worry about that。

S， because we've already assumed that you know， you're only allowed to move， you know。

 at some constant speed， you know， left and right on the tape。Okay， so that's。

Sort of how touring came up with this notion， so let's do one example of a touring machine right and I think we're just going to do one。

 okay because you know it can get you know it's like programming in assembly language except far more painful so I'm not going to force you to do you know lots and lots of you know touring machines。

 I'm not a sadest okay， but。Just to fix ideas， let's do one of them。All right。

 and let's go back to one of our favorite examples of a language。😊，呃。The language of palindromes。

So imagine that we have some。Tap。Like this。we have an input written on the tape like this 110011 and we have these hash symbols to mark the start and end of the input and now we would like to design a touring machine that tells us whether this string is a palindrome or not okay we know we already know that there's no finite automain that's going to do this for us。

 we prove that which means that you know there's oururing which tells us that our touring machine cannot work by just going scanning from left to right on the tape。

 it's going to have to do something a little more interesting than that， so it starts here。And now。

Can anyone just sort of describe the million words how the touring machine might work that would do this？

Yes。Did you take the first thing and you。You you keep swap it with the next character and it just the end。

 and you make sure they match and then you sort it。 and you come back and you。Y， y okay good。

 so so excellent so basically what we want to do is we want to read the symbol here。

 we want to store it in memory in our finite memory。

 which we can do then we want to go all the way to the end。

 we want to check that this symbol matches you know reject if it doesn' it。

 and then we want to go back and then we want to hit what this symbol here right and then we want to check that this matches this and then we want to go back to here and then we want to check that this matches this and then if everything matches then we want to accept。

😊，Right， so basically we want to go back and forth and back and forth， we want to zigzag through。

 so you know it won't be very efficient， it'll take us a quadratic amount of time， in fact。

 just to check whether our string is a palinro but we're not worried about efficiency for now。

So okay， but now there's a few technicalities that we have to deal with。

 one is how do we know when we've reached this symbol。

 how do we know when we've reached the symbol that we want to be comparing against？Anyone， yeah。Well。

 we don't want to be replacing all of these with special care oh， yeah， yes。Excellent， excellent yes。

 that's right and you know and likewise， you know we're also going to need to know when we go this way when we've reached the beginning right and so we're going to have to do a similar thing over here right we're going to have to like go until we reach you know the hash character and then we know that we've gotten to you know the last point and then we're going to have to go back and we're going to have to you know take the symbol that we want to compare and replace it with a hash character all right so let's。

😊，Let's be more explicit about it。Okay。啊。So we have an initial state， Q0， let's say， right。

We want to go， you know， we want to go to one state or another depending on whether this symbol here is a one or a zero right。

 so we can say if the symbol is a one， then first of all， overwrite it with a hash。

 we don't need it anymore okay and move one to the right， okay， likewise， what should be over here。

Zero hash hour， right？If we've read a zero， then overwrite it， move to the right。Okay。

 now what transitions do I need in this state？Yeah。その間に。Exactly perfect， yep。

 so I need if you read a w and then keep it a wand and move to the right， if you read a zero。

 keep it a zero and move to the right。Same thing down here。系。

Just some boring housekeeping work just to say get all the way over to the right， okay。

 and then what， when do we stop this？When you reach a hash， when we reach this hash。

 then we know that we have to do something different。Okay，When you read a hash， what should we do？

We could。Anyone。Yeah， keep it a hash and move to the left。Same thing over here， if you read a hash。

 keep it a hash and move to the left。Okay。Now， okay， now we're ready to do now we're over here， okay。

 now now what happens if we're up here and we read a zero？Reject。

So I'm just going to say if we read a zero， then reject similarly。

 if we're down here and we read a one， then reject。Okay。

 what happens if we're up here and we read a one？Replace it with what？With a hash and。Do what？

Left and go to the left y。Okay， likewise， if you're down here and you read a zero or replace it with a hash and go to the left。

Okay。All right， now what should we do over here？Well。

 if we read well basically we need to get all the way back over to the left you know to the left end of the string now right so we can say if we read a zero。

 keep it a zero and move left， if we read a1， keep it a one and move left same thing down here。

 if you read a1， keep it a1， move left， zero， keep it a zero and move left okay。

 but then what happens if we read a hash。Yeah， if we read a hash， exactly。If we read a hash。

 then I can keep it a hash， move to the right and go back to the start state。If I read a hash here。

 keep it a hash， go to the right， move back to the start state。 All right。

 now there's just one thing missing from this toing machine， Anyone know what's missing， yeah。

Oh yeah， yeah， okay， we can deal with that later， but that's a good point if it's an odd length string。

 right， even more basic， even if it's an even length string yeah。Yeah， never well， I mean。

 we do have it halt and reject over here， but we never， ever have it halt and accept。

 so when can it accept？Yeah， exactly so we could say if you know。

If you were expecting a zero or a1 and you instead see a hash， that means that you're done。

 that means that you have successfully palindromed this string。

 you have verified that it is a palindrome， okay so we can say if you read a hash here then you accept and likewise zero1 if you read a hash here then you can accept and I think that that will handle the odd length strings also。

I'm pretty sure it will。 you can check that if you want， but I think that if we put the except here。

 accept here， except here that we've handled Patlin's roomss of odd length and of even length。

 is that right？嗯嗯。Right， because。Because the only way we're going to halt and reject is if you。

You know as if you find a non matching pair and otherwise you're going to， you know。

 you're still going to halt， so then you're going to halt and accept。Okay， so there。

 there's our first and pretty much our last touring machine。Okay， so you know， you can see。😊。

You know， yeah， this is starting to look something like you know an assembly language program。

 or like a computer， it reads symbols， it writes symbols， it moves around in memory。Okay。But now。All。

 but now you know we should come back a little bit you to you the question that I wondered about as an 11 year old or whatever which is well why not have a still more powerful model of computation right maybe if you can jump around in memory or if you know maybe if you have more symbols available or something you know then this would you know that would make it more powerful right this is you know you know why isn't this just like a souped up find automaton that could be souped up even further if we wanted okay so。

嗯。So there's。A sort of you know foundational， I guess hypothesis you know in computer science that basically says that once we've gotten up to touring machines。

 then we've already reached here the sort of the limit of you of what computation what you know we've now successfully captured what we mean by a computer okay and that idea is called the church touring thesis okay now this is not a theorem there's no proof of this。

 not even clear what it would mean to prove it that's why it's called a thesis okay but you know it' there are。

there are sort of two different things that you can mean by the church touring thesis okay the first is just that you know it's a matter of definition okay that we are going to say you we're going to define what we mean by computable you know to be computable using one of these touring machines like this but you know and then it's kind of like you mathematician would say。

 you look the definition of a continuous function is a function that satisfies the definition in terms of epsilons and deltas and you might say you know when you first see you in calculus the definition with epsilons and deltas you say why does this really capture continuity and if a true mathematician would answer that will because we've defined it to right you know but that's still you know it's not really satisfying because you had before you ever took a calculus course。

You had some idea of what it meant to draw a curve on the board without ever lifting the chalk and then you want to know why does the formal definition capture your informal intuition。

so then you can give arguments for that like you can show examples。

 you can say here are you know here are examples of continuous curves that you would agree or continuous like you parabos or lines or whatever and here's why they satisfy the epsilon delta definition。

 here's something that you would agree is discontinuous and here's why it doesn't you know and then you can get you know to more confusing examples like s of1 over x or whatever or or you know the function that's zero at all the irrational numbers and one at the rational numbers and then maybe your intuition doesn't render such a clear verdict on whether it's continuous or not but there you just rely on the definition because the definition at least got right the cases that you that that you had an intuition for okay so you can do something similar with computability and this is more or less what touring does in his paper okay。

He sort of argues that that this definition， you of a touring machine， he didn't call it that。

 by the way， but later later people did， but you know that it captures our intuition of what we mean by for something to be computable okay a more interesting and more modern way of looking at it is that the church touring thesis is actually a falsifiable scientific claim。

 you know it's a claim about the nature of the physical universe。

 okay it's saying that the laws of physics of our universe have the property that any computer that we can build you know consistent with the laws of physics will be stable using a touring machine。

Okay you know， now it's not， you know， like any scientific hypothesis that's you know， you know。

 that's not something that can be mathematically proved， right， it's you know。

 it's something that could be falsified someday right， there are people。

 there are even you know a few physicists like Roger Penrose who believe that it's false who you know believe that you know。

 you know he believe that the brain can somehow use quantum gravity effects that you know give it abilities beyond those ofic machine。

Okay， that's a minority position， right？You know what you know at least what we know you know the physical theories that we know like you know quantum mechanics。

 general relativity， you know quantum field theory they all seem like you they do have the property that you know we can simulate them using a touring machine or using a you know digital computer feel like to at least to any desired finite precision you know there is always this issue that you the laws of physics you know involve continuous quantities right and with you know touring machines we've said that we have only a discrete you know alphabet of symbols you know and sort we've sort of discretized space and time also because you know we have these discrete tape squares。

 you know， these discrete time stepss， okay， but you know， we can at least sort of simulate。

you know all sort you know a physical system that we want to any sort of desired finite precision right and you know the at least the laws of physics that we know about seem to satisfy this property okay we'll see you know later that you know how it' it's possible to conceive of you know laws of physics that would let us do more than this right there you know we'll see that there were things that touring machines that not even touring machines can do and you know you could imagine laws of physics that would let us do those things okay but you know that you know for now you know the church touring thesis seems to be like a pretty good hypothesis about the nature of our world okay so that that was all kind of highfautin but the。

You know the type like the most straightforward kind of argument that you can give for the church touring thesis basically just to you know。

 well， you know you think it's false and you know you say what you think a computer should be you know say what capabilities you think a computer should have and then once you've you know once you've specified it。

 then I'll show you that whatever you said can just be simulated by a touring machine so it's the same thing anyway right and so people spent sort of 30 years or so convincing themselves of that right and just you know showing that all different models of computation that people could think of can be simulated using you know this ordinary touring machine okay so let's let's just do you know a couple examples of that just to sort of。

Show you why it is that people came to believe this charge touring thesis， okay。So。All right。

 so here's the first question that we could ask。Let's say that I actually restrict the power of a touring machine by making the tape infinite but only in one direction okay。

 so now you know the tape just you know reaches has an end over here right you're just not allowed to go past here if know we have a special symbol you know。

Like darrby dragons or something okay and you know this tells you that you've reached the edge of the world。

 you can't go any further Okay， so you know， see start here。

 you have an input that's written over here okay， and now the question is，😊。

Can you do everything using this kind of touring machine that you could do using a two way infinite touring machine。

呃。Could anyone。OrGive me a suggestion。How we might do it。So again。

 what we want in this sort of case is we want a simulation， right。

 we want a general way of taking a two way infinite touring machine and simulating it using a one way infinite touring machine。

 yeah。嗯哼。いや。Yeah， more or less。Okay， so what we can do。Is。

Let's just just insert a boundary over here right and want to say we've got our twoA infinite tape。

Like this。 And now what we could do is， I want to simulate this by a one way infinite tape。

I could just sort of interleave things right， I could say here let me for clarity。

 let me call the things on this side A's and B's， so this will be B， A， BB。

 and then I'll say I'll just interleave them so I'll have like going left here， you know。

 so I'll have B， then one， then B， then zero， then A， then zero， then B then one。Right where I just。

 you， I'm just zigzagging like that。What I can do right again。

 you know a key point for all these simulations is that time is not an issue we're not worried about how inefficient it is okay so now what happens is that when I'm going to simulate this touring machine except that instead of taking a step I have to take two steps like if I want to go if I know that I'm on the left side of the tape so I'm on the B and a part and I want to go one then if in the original machine。

 I want to go one square to the left， then here I have to go two squares to the right。Likewise。

 if I want it to go one square to the right， then here I go two squares to the left and if I'm on the right side。

 then I go one square to the right by going two squares to the right。

 I go one squared to the left by going two squares to the left。Fine okay。

 and then I need some logic for what happens when I cross the boundary right so if I'm like at B and I cross the boundary to one。

 well then I can model that by just going one square to the right so now I switch over you know and if I'm over here and I go one square to the left。

 then I can model that here by going one square to the left。All right， so I switch it over。Okay， so。

So then this sort of argument shows that two way infinite tapes you know are equivalent to one way infinite tapes and yeah I had to expand the alphabet by a little bit。

 but the alphabet is still finite so this is not that big a deal。

 you know another thing that you know you can verify you know maybe we'll be on a piece at is that you know if you don't like the fact that the alphabet is larger。

 well you can reduce the alphabet and that's not going to change the power either。

 going to have a smaller alphabet okay now slightly more interesting thing。Let's you know。

 we could also imagine a two tape touring machine。So what this means。

And in fact this is just often very convenient if we're talking about touring machines is that we have this one tape head and we have these but now well it's got two tapes okay and so it's got you a location on tape1 and the location on tape two and it's allowed you know it can read the symbol in here。

 read the symbol one here based on both of these symbols now it can transition to a new state。

 it can decide how to overwrite this symbol and how to overwrite this symbol。

 and then it can make four decisions about how to move it can go left or right on this tape and it can also move left or right on this tape。

Okay， now。Let's say that we want to simulate a two tape touring machine using a one tape touring machine。

 How would we do that？Yeah。Maybe for every combination of symbols， we'd create a new symbol。

 and then we turn each two。Tape into a half tape。Yep。Yeah， so yeah， so okay。

 so the first thing that we can do is we can make both of these tapes one way infinite tapes， right。

 because we can just use the type of simulation that we saw here to do that， right？😊。

Let me just make both of these one way infinite tapes by just doing this splicing trick from before right and I can do that with two tapes just as easily as I can do it with one tape Okay next you know I mean it's almost like we're talking about DNA right all right you know in fact you know there are you know very very deep analogies between touring machines and DNA right now I'm just going to splice these two guys together okay。

😊，I' was just going to you know， attach the you know this end to this end。

 and now I've got a single one way infinite tape， but there's still an issue that I have to worry about can anyone to see what the issue is。

Well， you know， in the in the original two tape touring machine。

 I had two pointers to memory at the same time， I had a pointer over here and I had a pointer over here。

Okay。And now that I have only a single tape touring machine， now I need only a single pointer。

 so how can I deal with that anyone？All right， well。

 the short answer to that question is with a lot of shadowtling back and forth。Okay。

 so what I can do is I can。😊，I can have a special symbol that you know to just remember where I was okay or in fact I can just enlarge my alphabet and for each old symbol you know。

 like if I had0 one hash now I'll have a symbol said zero and remember that you were there one and remember that you were there hash and remember that you were there so I enlarge my alphabet like that okay and then。

And now I need to shuttle back and forth， so I need to say you know if okay I was reading a one over here。

 I need to remember that and my finite state go over it over here。

 you know stop when I find one of these symbols that tells me where I was and then I know both the symbol that I was reading on the one half of the tape and I know that the symbol that I'm reading on the new half。

 so now I know know where I should move over here okay but now I got to shuttle all the way back over here and now I need to figure out you know you know you know because now I know where to move over here or that a move left or right。

 so I go and do that， and know for each step for every single step of my original two tape touring machine。

 I now have to do the shuttling back and forth you know I think a few times actually。

 in order to simulate it on this one tape touring machine。Okay。

 so this is actually at least a quadratically inefficient simulation because like for every one step of the old machine。

 I'm doing end steps going back and forth and back and forth， okay， but I can do it。

 you know you know there's no reason why not。Okay。Okay。

 so now you know this is kind of convenient because。

You know I mean I mean just like we can have a two tape touring machine。

 we can have a three tape or a four tape touring machine you know and so forth and then you know it's not hard to see that these are also equivalent to one tape touring machines okay so you know and then we can also have as many tapes as we want that are just for scratch space。

So the picture to have in mind is that we have。Some input tape on which some input is written。

 so call it x， so in this case x is a string of n bits。Okay。

And then we have a touring machine called it M， which is reading。

 and M could also have additional tapes。With additional inputs on them。Like here。

 I'll have a tape with another input， why。Okay。Okay， and now you know， given these tapes。

 the touring machine will do something right， namely， it will either accept， reject or run forever。

 okay， and whatever it does。I'll call that like M of the inputs。

So the behavior of M on these inputs is accept reject or loop。Okay。嗯。Okay， and。So， now。

So now if we have a language L， right， so we have a set of strings over some alphabet here。

 I'm just taking it to be01， okay， then we'll call the language computable。If。

There exists a touring machine， M。Such that。I'll say M of x accepts or m of x equals accept for all inputs x that are in the language and M of x equals reject for all x that's not in the language okay so you so language is computable if there's some touring machine that computes it right and that means two things right first of all that touring machine has to halt for every possible input okay that's already you know not all touring machines are going to do that okay but second of all not only does it have to halt it has to accept if x is in the language and has to reject whenever X is not in the language and now。

And now the next step would just be to see you know what are some examples of languages that are computable。

 right we already saw one example， what was it？The palindromes right， but in fact。

 you know at this point it's just you know it it's just programming okay， at this point， you know。

 I could say you know the language of all。Of one to n for all n such that n is prime。Okay。

It turns out that that's computable as well， I'm not going to force you to draw the touring machine that does it okay but there is one。

 you know， and if you really wanted to do it， then the way to do it would be in your favorite programming language。

 like you know whether it's Java or Haskell or Python or whatever， write a primity testing program。

 then compile that program you know to assembly and then compile the assembly into touring machine。

You can do it， you know you'll get a touring machine with this big you buttload of sticks okay but you know it'll work and you know you can have a touring machine for running windows or for running Linux okay or for you know you know playing your favorite video game okay so at this point we've sort of crossed a threshold and you know there's one particular thing touring machines can do that's especially interesting and important and which touring noted in his original paper which is that they can simulate other touring machines okay so we'll see that on Thursday and then we'll also see what touring machines cannot do and then we'll talk about different levels of infinity about canther we'll talk about girdle's incompleteness theorem。

ok。