# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p15 6.5620 Lecture on 10⧸22⧸2025 (Wed).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p15-

The。Okay， so let's start。 So actually before I start the midterm is not next week。

 but the week after everything that I'm going teach today and next week will not be in the midterm。

 Okay so we're today we're moving to lattice based crypto。

 Everything in the midterm is up to before lattice based cryptography。 Okay。

 so I just want to make sure you have time to prepare without kind of adding material right before the midterm。

😊，Okay， so。Any questions before we start？Yeah， do we have a piece of before the midterm No， after。

 right， my， yeah， yeah， yeah， no， Yeah， yeah， Oh， yeah， no， no after from now until the midterm。You。

 I mean， now the Pet is due on Friday， right， So sorry， yeah。

 So then you have a week and a weekend to just focus on the midter。 Okay， yeah。

actuallyual the greatest the midterm。I think of course， policy actually say that。Really。

 it doesn't sound the way。 I forgot the number。 It doesn't say。Oh my God。 Where's Andrew。

 I don't remember what we what。Yeah， pick I remember， sorry， I， I really don't。 we said actually。

 it's not like in the handout。Its like I I check the course website。

 but it has of policies And I don't see it No， but there's a web。

 there's a course kind of in a handout that was， it should be in the website。

 a course handout that should say like information that was。

Something coarse information information like it is some of the policies like collaboration。

 but it doesn't say the fraction of everything。Okay， sorry。That sounds right to me。

 That sounds right to me， but I'm worried to say that because I may be wrong。 Where did you read it。

这个他一个。对对。Oh， okay， I also thought it was 40%， but I never trust my memory because it's terrible not to be trusted。

 So， you know， the best， if you can remember， to write a piazza post。

 And then Andrew and Aparna will answer because we have SAT like。The exact kind of。

 we talked about this。 and we upset it。 And I thought it was 40。

 but better if you send a Piaz post in the answer。Okay， I really hope you all get As。Like。

 I think you're smart。 and you should all simply ask with questions。 So let's make that the goal。No。

 I don't plan to curveb。 I mean，No， I think you guys should do well if you get it。

Any other questions？Yes。Hey。Okay， the the goal。 look， what let me tell you， for the midterm。

 what you should do is really study the material we taught in class。 Okay， make sure you understood。

 oh， look， who's here， Andrew。The midum is 40% of the grade。 Do you remember what we said， Yeah。40。

40。Okay， basically， just study well for the mature。

 make sure you understand what all the material that has been taught in class。 Okay。

 if you have an understanding of all the material， go over each and every lecture notes。 Okay。

 go over all the P sets。If you understand， you're good。 If you don't understand。

 come to us and ask what questions about what you don't understand。O。Okay， any， any other questions。

呀。Mter。How are we doing with a pizza？P at two should be， should be graded， right before the midterm。

P said definitely everything。Tip 1，2，3。I don' know。They timing need to be said。

 but they should all be out。But Pi，2 should be out， hopefully， before the metro too。哎呀。Okay。

 other questions。Okay， so let's just before we move to lattice based crypto。

 I want to do a quick recap of what we talked during the last kind of a couple lectures or two three lectures。

 so we basically moved from symmetric cryptography to public key cryptography。

 we started by this key agreement protocol， which kind of led to the first public key encryption that we learned。

 which was Igamal， and it was based we proof security based on the DDH assumption。

 and we showed kind of variance of it that we can prove security based on the CD the computational dihoman assumption。

And then we kind of showed how to get CPA secure encryption from general trapor functions or trapor injected one way functions。

😊，And if just the construction is the way if you have a trap or function F。

 the construction is the public key。 Theres a hash key。For the function and the message M。

 think of M as like a bit。Then basically the encryption was choose a random X in the domain and choose R for Har code predicate。

 sorry， choose a random X in the domain， but I'll put F hash key of x。

Choose a random R for Harcore predicate。And then use the hardcore predicate as a one time padd。

To ask the message。So that's kind of a general encryption scheme that we saw assuming you have any family of trapor injected one- way functions。

 Okay， because this is a one way function， we don't know X。

 we don't know if it's a one- way function， It means that the Harco predicate。

 it's indistinguishable from uniform and then M is hidden。And， of course。

 we can decrypt because it's trapor given a trapor。

 we can invert X itss inject so we can find the exact X。 and then demask this kind of one time pad。

Okay， and then last class， what we started to do is we showed constructions。

So the first construction we saw was Rabin's tractor function。

Which you can think of it as a permutation。 So red's function takes x to x squared modern。

And if you think of it as a function from Z N star to Z N star， it's not injective。

 It actually has element。It goes to square。 So the the image is all the quadrato residues。

 all the squared Madam。And each square modern N has four elements。In the the domain in the end star。

 Okay， so the set of cora residues， modern， when N is a productive prime is a quarter of the elements。

But it turns out to be injective if you were restrict yourself。To only the subgroup of Zen star。

 which is all the Quarato residues， which are all the squares， Madam。Okay。

 then you get permutation and then you're good。😊，Then we saw based on this idea， actually。

 there's the goldvasom Mili scheme， which we saw the gold Vassmicli scheme was that was kind of the first paper。

😊，To give a formal definition of security。 Okay， until then， everything was ad hoc。

 So they came up with the first definition。 They would want to show you need to have kind of random randomization in your encryption。

 And then they gave a scheme based on that。 They didn't。 So this is based on factoring。

 So this is based。And the hardness of factoring。The goldda currently was based not on the hardness of factoring。

 but on a perhaps weaker assumption， which is the quadrara preacity assumption。

 And their assumption is that you cannot distinguish between random squares。

And random elementss that are not square。But our not square mod P and not square mod Q。Okay。

 so squares， so square in B and both P and Q versus non squares， both in P and Q。

And the claim is it's hard to distinguish between these two。

If one is a square and one is a nu square， if the number is mod p square， mod Q and nu squared。

You can tell that。 So you can tell if。Like。The number is both squares or both not square or one in one。

 These two you can distinguish。 That's called the Jacobbi symbol。

 That's something that actually could be computed efficiently。Okay， so that was Goddoka。

 And then we saw another trapor permutation construction based on the RSA。 And basically。

 the trapor permutation and RA is very similar to Raven。But instead of two， they think。Another。

 another power E。As long as E is co prime to p minus-1 and Q -1。If it's co to P -1 and Q -1。

 then it has a unique inverse， mod P and a unique inverse， mod Q。

 And then it's in it's injectableable permutation。Okay， so that was the what we saw。

 I want to say one correction。For something I completely messed up last， you guys caught me。

 So thank you。 But let me correct this now slowly。The ran trapor function。In order to invert。

Given a trapor， we say we invert。 And in order to invert， the way we invert is we find square roots。

 Smart P and mark Q。And I kind of said， oh， yeah， you can find square with my P Q。

You can't easily find square。 You guys caught me。 So thank you。 But let me again， you can。

 It's not that easy to find square root Mo P and square root Mo Q。 The reason is。

I mean why it's not easy because2 is not co prime to p -1。 It's not in the group。

 So you need to find the inverse of two kind of mod p -1。

 but two doesn't have an inverse it's not an element in the group Z P star P-1。

 So finding inverses another square roots in Z P star not not always trivial。

 it is trivial if P sorry is3 mod Q3 mod 4， sorry， if p is3 mod 4， then it's easy。

 How given a prime P that is 3 mod 4。And the square y。😮，The square root of y？😮。

It's just going to be y itself raised to the power of p plus1 divided by4。And just note。

I need the plus one divided by 4 to be an integer， And it is an integer。 if this holds。

 That's why this restriction。Okay， so if p is3 mod 4， then p plus 1 is a multiple four。

 and this is an integer。 Now， why is this the inverse， Because let's square it。

 So a squared is just y to the power of p plus1 over 2。But what is p plus 1 over 2。

 It' just y to the power of p -1 over  two times y。啊啊， yeah。Now， why is a square？

It's good right residue。 So this。Is some。X。Square to the power of p minus-1 over 2。

So this is of the form x of the p minus1。😡，But every element raised to the power of the order of the group。

😡，Z P star the order of Z P stars p -1， every element。Race of the power of the group is one。So this。

It one。 And indeed， we get what we wanted。Okay， so that's why this is an inverse。Now。

Question about this？😮，Okay， now， let me just say you can do this in general。

 You don't need to make this assumption。 We can find in versus in any PM And Q。

 It's just more technical， more involved。 And in general。Take any pe。Think of P P -1。

 Take all the multiples of two times a knot。O， if it's 3 mod 4， then it's just two times scale。

But in general， can be2 to the S times k where k is are。And then how do you find an inverse well。

If you're why？That you're given， satisfied that when， if when you raise wine to the king。ToR。

You get one， meaning all the residues are already in Y kind Y is already an element kind that has other。

Is an element of the form kind of generator to the power two this。 Its It has all the。Sol。

The powers of two kind of in it。Then the same exact thing holds。

 you take a you'll say that the square root is y itself to the power of k plus one over 2。Basically。

 it's the same thing because。EIt's， it's exactly the same as above。 if you take S to be  one。Okay。

 and of course， this is a square root， because when you raise y， when you take y squared。

As when you take a squared， you'll get y to the K times y。 and this we assume is one。 So it's y。

So this is good。AndBut you saying， okay， what if this is not one？

What if you need get one you need to raise k to wipe the power of k times2 to some power。

 then what do you do？Then it's more involved。And basically， the way you do it is you need。

 there's an algorithm。An efficient algorithm for finding a Z in Z P star。

So that y to the K times z squared is one。Now， I'm not gonna say here how actually。

 I didn't plan to teach it， but because I messed up。 I added it to the notes。

 You don't have to look at it if you're not interested。 Its the examr or anything。

 but I felt like I needed to correct myself。 So I added it to the notes。 so you can read about it。

 But basically， you， there's a way to compute the Z。 And then you do the same。

 The inverse is gonna be y to the K plus one over2。 but you multiply by Z。

And then when you square this， you'll get y to the K plus 1。Times z squared。And everything was one。

 except for the mice， so we'll get wiped back。Okay。

 so I just wanted to put this as a parenthesis to fix kind of the I glossed over it kind of thinking it's trivial。

 But of course， it's not。 so this is the algorithm。Okay。

 so any questions before I move now to lattice based crypto。呀。Oh， I put S。 This is my sweet S。 So。

 yeah， P -1 is2 to the sum power I call it S times some odd， yeah。😊，So when， when p is 3 mod 4。

 S is is just one。 It's2 k。Any， any other questions。Okay， so now with that。

 let's move then to lattice based crypto。So， you know。

 we saw by now many constructions of public key encryption。啊。Let me tell you all of them。

 And by the way， like Elgaman is based on DDH in any group。 you can take， you know。

 some groups of ZP star。 you can take elliptic curves。 So there's a big kind of family here。

 We have based factoring。 We have based andquitic curiosityroity under RA。

 So we've seen a lot of kind of assumptions。😊，Now， let me tell you。

 all of them are broken using quantum computers。Okay。

 sos so everything youve learned so far in public key encryption。Probably will not be useful。

 actually。Already today。You probably should stay away from these king， why？😡。

Because we believe that in the next maybe 10 years， maybe Max 20 years。

I've been told quantum computers will exist。So now when the encrypt now a message。

 someone can save it and in1。20 years， they would be able to decrypt it。

So if you care about the secrecy of your messages， just stay secret。In the future。

 you don't want to use。Assumptions that are quantumly broken。Because we have a， you know。

 public encryption， something we use all the time。 Every time you know， you talk to Amazon。

 you use public encryption all the time。 So what， what do we do。You know。

 we need to stay away from these。From these assumptions， so what do we do。And so today。

 kind of we have， there's been a push already several years now to move all the scheme to standardize towards scheme that are we believe are post quantum secure。

 And now what I want to do is tell you a little bit about these schemes。

 How do we construct post quantum secure schemes。And the way we construct them is using very different mathematics。

So whereas here we use kind of either kind of number theory or group theory。

Cryptography that's based on what we hope to be post quantum secure is lattice based assumptions。And。

Laters based assumptions or cryptography is very has a lot of benefits， as we'll see。

 One of them is we don't have quantum attacks。 So that's a big， a big plus。 So post quantum secure。

 hopefully。😊，Okay， good。 another thing， even classically。

 we don't have like sub exponential algorithms。Okay， so no。Attacks。Okay， almost more。So basically。

 we believe it's like exponentially hard。Okay so。Exactly。 Yeah， think of it as like it's a。Yeah。

 its explain。 it's like two to the order Lambda。Almost， except with log。 Yeah， there is almost。 it's。

 it's almost you can do better。 You can shape some log term exponent， but that's it。

 So like something like two to the lambmbda over log Lada。So it's a little better。 It's not perfect。

 but almost so。Maybe no a bit a strong word， but I'll say minimal attacks。

So you can't do much better than brute force， whereas for factoring or discrete log。

You have algorithm running time 2 to the lambda， to the third。Okay， so much better。

 like you have subex algorithms， which means you need to take much bigger keys。Okay。

 so here you don't have。 So no， maybe I should say no subs financial。Algorithms。

For for the problems we， we rely on。几数。The other thing， these assumptions seem very robust。

 in particular， what we know。 So the assumption I'm going to present is an average case assumption。

 like all the assumptions。 Something is hard on average， because at the end of the day。

 we choose a public key from some distribution。 And the assumption is for that for random public key。

 you can find the secret key。 So all our assumptions are average kind of assumptions。😊。

The latter case assumptions can be reduced to worst case assumptions。 So there' is a reduction。

So basically， what we're going to show。Or we're not going to show， actually。 But what is known。

 So I'm going to give you an assumption。 It's called learning with air。 We're going to see it。

 It's a very average case assumption。But what we know。

There's an adversary that breaks the assumption， on average。

Then there's an algorithm for solving certain lattice problem in the worst case。

 you can only solve it。So basically， we're assuming that there's no algorithm that always solves some lattice problem though。

You know， people believe it's hard。So it's based on worst case hard。Whichch is very nice。

But turns out what's really interesting about all this。Is that it has surprising？Power。

And in particular， what we're going to see next week is we can use this technology to construct what's called fully homomorphic encryption。

 as an example。So。Which is basically encryption that you can add。 the cipher text multiply。

 You can kind of add and multiply and do kind of whatever computation you want。

 kind of under the hood of the encryption。 And we're going talk about this next week。

So for all the oh end， moreover。It's not even complicated。Okay， so it's very。It's very desirable。

Okay， so now。How can I get you motivated？So what is this lattice based assumption。

That we're going to rely on。Okay。Basically， what we would like to rely on。

Is that it's hard to solve linear equations。But it's easy to solve linear equations。

 So I can't rely on it， but let me still。 So here's take， let's say M linear equations。

 Let me do know bio matrix a。In ZQ， you can think of Q as a prime， it doesn't have to be。

 but let's think of Q as a large prime it doesn't even have to be that large。

 We'll talk about parameters in a bit， but you can think of it even  Q to be polynomial in security parameter。

 for example。Let's take M。Equations， so you have like。A one。A2。Up to AM。And you have a random secret。

In ZQN。So you have here secret S。Suppose I give you， I give you。

 here's the equation and here's the output。Like here is the output of when you apply equation 1。

 and S equation 2 and S and so on。Now， of course， if you have enough equations， you can find us。

So okay， so no hardness here。Here's observation。What if we add a little bit of noise。

So what if we take each equation。And perturb it a little bit。Okay， so what if now I add。

I take some E， some noise。This is for air。From what distribution we'll talk about this。

Let me call this the distribution of noise。So for every linear equation。I add like。

 I perturb it a little bit independently。Okay， so I have some noise distribution and each kind of element I'm going to perturbval over bit。

Now we believe this is our assumption。That there exists。Let me call useful。

 and I'll tell you what what I mean by useful。 noise distributions said that this。

Is computationally indistinguishable from just uniform。Great question。I'll talk about this。

 How you get rid of the noise。 But this， let me first say， this is what's called the learning。

With air。Assumption。Also called out。And he was invented or suggested by rega， about would did rea。In。

20000。Okay， but now I want to say this is kind of a family of assumptions。 Okay。

 so there are many parameters to this assumption。 So basically， I you。

 I can think of this assumption。This assumption I can call it LWE。With parameters。

 n number of equations， n the length of the secret。Q。

 which is the field on which field ring and which I'm doing I'm doing the operation and the ring Z Q。

 it's a field that Q is a prime， otherwise not。And in air distribution。Okay， so now you can。

When is this harm， like， we don't always believe that this assumption is true。 For example。

 if the noise is always zero。And M is bigger than N。Then。We can distinguish。

 We solve and distinguish。So it's not always true。 So now you can ask， when is it true。

 for which parameters do we believe this is true。Okay， now I。Okay， so it's for this class。

 let's think of Q as prime， though people have also considered for efficiency reasons。

 Q to be like a power of a prime。But for now， but you can think of it in general。 But for now。

 let's think of Q as a prime。Okay， so the question is， when is this a。What is the secure。Okay。要爷。Yes。

 each coordinate， we randomly sample air according to the same air distribution chi。20% done at zero。

Yeah， you can have that indeed。 So let me tell you what for this class。

 usually what we should what one thing one example you can think of is think of okay， so first。

 let me let me actually。Kind being over0， broken。Ki being completely uniform。 Here's another example。

 So we said when Kai is just like a distribution that outputs。Just 0， always up for 0。

 Then forget it。 The L W is not broken because's just linear equations。Itす。Is uniform。In ZQ。N in ZQM。

Just a uniform distribution。Then， of course， it's， it's old。 It's just this。

 It's not been computational。You add you mask it with a completely uniform string。 You get uniform。

Then it's not useful。 Yeah， it's uniform， but its statistical。

 we're not gonna get anything out of it。 Okay， so this is， it's good， but it's like not useful。

The the distribution that you should keep in mind。Is the high being。Kind of uniform。

Between kind of minus B and B。Oh。Okay， we'll talk about what B is。 Yeah， you should think of。It。

 can be much smaller than root Q than it can be much smaller than root Q。 You。

 you should think of B definitely needs to be smaller。 We'll see than Q over 4。O。Then why？ exactly。

 We'll see。 But we'll talk we'll talk a lot about what this be is。 Okay。

 but this is kind of what you should think of。But let me just say one thing。

What was shown and what's used in practice is not the uniform distribution。Actually。

 what's used in practice and what was proved already in Regiv's work here is the distribution he took is what's called a discrete Gaussian。

 So it's not really ran。 It's not like a uniform。Over minus B And B。 But basically。

 it looks like kind of this。 but it's。Like discretized version。Okay。

 so let me not get into the details of how， how this discrete graph screen is defined because there's parameters there。

 too。 So things are complicated。 But the reason it's not that we don't。

 It's not like we think this isn'tec。 Actually， probably this is thatec。 But here。

 it's with this distribution that he was able to show a reduction to solving a worse lattice problem in the worst case。

Okay， so it's estimating the shortest vector in the lattice。

 I don't want to define these lattice problems， but he wanted to reduce it。

To worst case assumption in lattices。 And with this distribution， he managed to reduce it。He。

 actually， it's interesting。 just the history。 He managed to get a quantum reduction for some reason。

 even though there's nothing quantum here。But then Chris Pikert in 2009， I believe， believe。

 was able to kind of get rid of the quantum part。 So now we have like。Purely classical reduction。A。

 which is kind of just inspired by quantum techniquess， I guess。But， O， but for us， let's just。

 for this class， let's just think of this as the。Has the noise distribution。

 because it's just simpler to work with。Okay， so now there's a question， what is B？

What b should we take？And let me say we do need to be careful。 if we take B2 B too small。

 it also break。So let me give you an example of an attack if the be a small， okay？So。

 for concreteness。Suppose for a second， B。It's like one。

 suppose the kind outputs a uniform distribution between kind of minus-1，0 and one。

Everything I'm showing now stands， but it's just easier on the board to think of， of， of B equals 1。

Okay， now， so here's I'm going how I'm going。 I want to say that I can break the del mu assumption and at least of M is large enough。

 and we'll see。Okay， so how will I break it， Here's the idea。 What I'm going do。So I have。

 let's look at each linear equation。 So I have an a in a half A S。Plus， noise。Yeah。

 that's kind of what I'm given。 Now， the noise here。Is -1，0 or 1。So now， let me call this a B。

Okay I'm giving A and B。But now， what do I know， I know that then。I know that B is equal。 sorry。

 I know that a。That B minus A S minus E is equal to 0， yeah。や告。Yeah， yeah， S is what we Yeah， indeed。

 S is our secret。 Okay， that's how we should think of it。 We have S。 It's kind of the secret。

And we're giving you linear equations of the CP。But with noise， and we want to find this。Yeah。

 by the way。Yeah， yeah。 here。 we're trying to find this advers。No， okay， so okay。Okay， actually。

 maybe before I do that， let me just mention。This assumption。It's also called Decal。LWE。

 because you need to decide， you need to decide， are you an LWE To or are you random。

There is a search version of this assumption。And maybe I'll just try to here the search。

LWE with the same parameter。N Q and chi。 And this says。That for any。Poly size adversary。

There exists in negligible。Such that。The probability。That， a。Aadversary， that's given a matrix。

And an LWE2 port。Finds the secret S。Is negligible。And usually here we think of n as the security。

 Okay， let me write it Lambda。But。N usually is like taken to B Lada。

The security parameter here and is like the security parameter。Okay。

 so there are two versions of this assumption。 One assumption is a decision。 You need to understand。

 do we have your noisy linear equations。Or is it truly random。Another assumption， which is stronger。

Says I'm going to give you noisy linear equations， solve them。Turns out。

That for many setting of parameters， these two assumptions are actually equivalent。

If you can solve the decision。You can solve the search。Now。

 I don't want to say any about it because I thought maybe I'll do a homework with this kind of about this。

 So let me leave that， but。Mention that。In many setting of parameters。

 we know that these are actually equivalentent。 Okay。

 if I give you an algorithm that can distinguish， you can use them to actually find us。

So often in the literature， nobody distinguished。 They'll say L W assumption。 You shouldn say L。

 they think of this assumption。Not the search version。

 but it's rarely that people actually distinguish between them。Okay。

 so now I'm going to show how I can， if be a small， I can break the search。

Problem I'll actually find that， yes。This。like No， no， great question。 No， no， no， great。

 great question。 No， so every every equation， I sample a fresh error。

 If if I sampled one error and put the same error E E E E E， it wont be it won't be secure。 Yeah。

 so E is， yeah， so this is kind of E1。Up to E， each of them are freshly independently sampled from high。

 Great， thank you。Great。Good， you guys are awake， any other questions？呀。This like the scientist of。

Good， I'll answer that right now。 Okay， so how does M and N compare， Basically， the question is。

 how do we choose these parameters， There's B， There N is always N is kind of a security parameter。

 But how do we choose N as a function of N。 How do we choose B。How do we choose Q？

All of these are good questions。 And let me try to。 So let's play and see。 Okay， I let's try to see。

 So first， I want to say we can't choose B to B too small。

 We have to have some significant amount of air。😊，And let me tell you why if B is really small。

 let's say-1，0，1， let me tell you what goes wrong。Okay， and this extends。

 But let me kind of try to show the attack。What I'm going to do。I'm so suppose I'm given B。

 And I know that it's a times S。 either it's a times S or it's a times S plus one or it's a times S -1。

Then now I can write like a polynomial equation with no noise。So it means that either this is zero。

Or this is zero。Or。This is you。So I have no equation。 No noise。 It's just an equation。Okay。

 because either B is a times S or。B is a times S plus1， or B is a times S -1。

So one of these must be0。 And so this thing is 0。So now I managed to get M。Equations， no noise。

 but degree 3。😮，Okay， now。You don't need to be so worried because we don't actually know how to solve like solving quadra solving linear equations is easy。

 but even solving quadratic equations。Its it's already NP hard。So up， we may be okay。

 We have equations， but。Q root。 we have it's degree 3 in S。 So maybe it's O。Turns out。

If you have too many of these equations， it's not okay。😡，And in general。

 if you have degree 3 polynomials， degree 4 polynomials， degree 2 polynomials， if you have too many。

You can break it like you can solve the equations。 and the solution is we have very。

 very simple attack called linearization attack。So I now I have equations。

 The equations have like either the equations are in S。 That's what I want to find。 It either has。

Terms of the form S1 S2 of N or S I times S J， or S I times S J times S K。

RightSo the kind of I can think of the variables as being either as one of the SN。Or S times Sj。

For every I N G。Or。SIS，J and SK。Anybody has a guess what I can do next。How I can solve this？

You just like said very。Exactly， that's exactly what I do。 I'm going to call this a new variable。

 This is a variable going to be S I J。 I'm going to call this a new variable。

 This is variable going to be S I J K。😊，Okay， with Nor。Now， it's a linear system。I can solve linear。

Now you can be word。 you can say， wait， okay， you can solve it。 but who says？That what you got？😮。

So let's say I solve， that I have solutions for SJ SIJ， SIJK， and the， but you can say， well， okay。

 but who says that your solution respects。You know。

 the constraints that S I times J times S K is indeed equal to this。

 or S I times J is equal to this or。Turns out。If you have enough equations。

 that can be the only solution。So it depends if you don't have many equations。 Yeah。

 so I can linearize， but I'll fail。 I'll get。 There gonna be too many solutions。

And the1 I'll find will may probably not respect。So it's secure， but turns out if n is big enough。

I'm going to have enough。 There's gonna to be one solution at that。Solution will respect。

And then you do， yeah。这生思。Again， sorry。Oh， you're asking。

 do we have are these linear equations independent， Is that what you're asking？You know， L in。

From the definition here， we quite。Okay， I don't require independence。 I require the matrix， I mean。

It's close。 I say the make the equations are uniformly distributed。So。

You expect things to be independent， you know， but it's not a requirement for me， eachequ， so。

If you take， if you take any， like let's say， the first n equations。

Normallyably the matrix is going to be full rank， especially if Q is large。But。You know， I'm not。

 It's not a constraint For me， it's random。 But you're right that you should。

It's very unlikely that I'll get smallrink。Is that。I guess you can't take the same equation twice。

 Actually， a very strong coal。 It's unlike， yeah， So the assumption says for random。

But there is a exponentially small chance that I'm going get the same。 But yeah， but it's unlikely。

 Yeah， right， exactly。A。Good， so it turns out that if M。I's like larger than like。En to the。

I think it's something like this，2 B plus one， because we have2 B and then one。

 like it's between minus B and B。 And we have the0 in the middle。

If M is larger than n to the 2 b plus one。This linearization attack works。 Theres a unique solution。

 And then I find it。Exactly， so if B， for example， is one and you take more than n cubed equations。

 youre doed。So， okay， so now with that attack， how do we set the parameters？Okay， so the parameters。

Deitely， n is just a security parameter。How much we want， how much security we want。

Usually we think any pollan。Any polynomial。B， so we'll talk， okay， Q， we'll talk about in a second。

 but B。Will be something like。You know， swear Roan。

So if the number of equations is n to the power squared then， which never happens， that's too much。

 then you know， but。Anyway， the tackle only run that time。 So now， now we're safe。

And now the question is， what what is Q。And Q， there is many options。

 Sometimes people think of Q as being poly。And that's one example。 And we need for， as we'll see。

 we need， we'll see this， but we'll need like B to be smaller than Q over 4。So it's fine like。

 you know， even if we take Q to B N， we're okay。But sometimes we'll like Q to be bigger。

Sometimes we' like you to be super pomon you。Even sometimes it'll take it to be like two to the n to the epsilon or something。

And we'll see why sometimes we want you to be bigger。Okay， there is gonna be some no。

 the noise is kind of gonna grow and grow and we'll want to make sure we have room to increase the noise。

 But I'll talk about it。 But this is kind of。Kind of a setting of parameters that you can keep in mind。

Okay， any， any questions。呀。I didn't say how to encrypt。 Okay， so good question。 Another the question。

 okay， we have this assumption。 How do we encrypt， like， how do we do crypto with this。Good， so。

Actually， let me was this。Okay， so why is this useful assumption？Okay， so。First of all。

 let's look at for a second the function。That takes his input。A a。S。And E。

So this is just uniform between minus B And B。 This is uniform。 So this is in。Z Q M by N。

This is in Z Q N， and this is in。Minus B， B。To them。And。Sorry， no yes， that's good。 And outputs。A。

And A+。So this lives in ZQ。😊，嗯。By n。Times Z Q M。Now， what did we learn about this？ So first note， O。

 what did we learn about this function。The first thing we know， oh， this assumption。

 LW assumption says this is a one way function。Okay， so if I give you this。You cannot find us。I mean。

 of course， you can find a fine， but you cannot find S and hence not E。Because you can find you。

 you couldn find us。So， already， so。LWE， even computational。Aldo W E。

Applies that F is a one way function。Okay， so we can dosymmetric。

 We can do a secret key cryptography with it because with secret key。With one way functions。

 if you remember beginning of class， and now is a good time to refresh your memory for the midterm。

 we know that with one way functions we can do cryptography。😊，Moreover， by the decision。😊，HowWE。

We actually know that F。I 수。真的。It takes few random bits。And now puts a lot of random it。Why。

 how many random bits do you take here， Well you take MN times long Q？😡，Plus， N long queue。Plus。

M log B or2 log B。No， log B plus1， I guess。Anyway， something small。 How about here， Well。

 it's the same M， N logq。These two cancel。Plus。And。Luck you。😡，This。Can be much bigger。T this。Because。

You can take Q to be much， much bigger than B。So if you set the parameters right here。

 you'll get much more， the output will be much， much bigger。

So I generated randomness or pseudo randomness。Again。

 this doesn't get me public encryption it only gets me secret key encryption because as we said。

 when we functions imp PRG， we get immediately a PRG from a PRG， we saw we can get a PRF from a PRF。

 if you remember correctly let me give you a refresh if if you have a PRF with a TK。

 now you you can encrypt any message M by outputing a random R the PRF。😊，An R。

 which could be a good mask friend。Great。😊，But symmetric， we need to agree on a K。So so farsymmetric。

How do we get public encryptionions the question？Any questions before I tell her I get public the interrupt。

 is this clear？Okay， so what a great time for nice suspense。 Let's take a couple minute break。

 and then I'll show you the public encryption。😊，Oh。Okay， so let's continue。

 So how do we get publicly。 So actually， so I'm going to present for to Redgib scheme。

That's kind of in the paper that he introduced the LW assumption。But actually。

 let me first show you a symmetric encryption scheme。 Okay， A secret key version。 Now。

 I know you can get a secret key version by from any PRF。 I know， but this will take me。

 this is gonna be a special symmetric encryption that then I'm gonna use to get a public key version。

😊，Okay。So heres the okay， so here's the symmetric version。 The message face is just going to be bits。

0 1。That's going be both for the symmetric and the public key。Versin。

 but heres how you so the secret key is just random， so it's just going to be S。

Just a random S in ZQN。Okay， that's it。Now， how do we encrypt。So to encrypt。

I have my secret and I have a message， which is a bit。ok。This is my elder assumption。

Any guesses how you would encryptp。呀。Exactly， okay， almost exactly。 But here's on。

 I'm going choose a random A。 This is going to be random。In Z Q to then。I'm gonna。Do A S plus noise。

And I want not use that and add there the message。So I want to do that post the message。Itmost works。

 The problem is。So not I don't know how to decrypt this because， okay， how will I decrypt？Derypt。

 I have my S。 I have a cipher text。Which is let me call C0 and C1。So a， or you know what。

 let me actually call it。A and B for completeness， okay。And what I can do， I can take this。B。

Subtract。A。But then I get an noisy version of my message。Yeah。😊，Exactly。

 that's precisely that I give to。 Okay， great。 So you guys are as smart as leg。

 So you should get A in this class。Okay。Q over2。 That's precisely。That's the scheme。

And now how do we， Okay， so how we， do we decrypt， We take B。 So this is the decryption。You take。啊。B。

 you subtract a times S。 So you now have。Q over two or no Q over2 plus noise。 So if you encrypted 0。

 you get just that noise。 if you encrypted。One， you should get kind of a noisy version of Cuba2。

So what you'll do。This is let's say smaller than Q over4。Output。0。And otherwise。Output。1。那呀。

You're right。 Yeah， So if you want encrypt and bits， you're going to do it bit by bit。

So if you encrypt n bit， good。 So let's do。 let's see the。Yeah yeah。I住です。Between this。

messagessage is only one。And so， like。That's right。 That's exactly right。 So， yeah。

 so let me say what you said in a different way。Suppose I want to encrypt endbits。What if I。

 So I told have encrypted endbit， but I actually want to encrypt。I'm one。Up M。Okay。

 let me call it B1。Up to B。Let's say this is what I want in。So what am I going to do。

I'm going to choose a1 up to A。Because each one。And then I'm going to give you for each one。

Basically， so this is a。 and then I'm going to give you for each one A S。To must noise。A E， sorry。

And then I'm going to add。B1。Up to B N Q over 2， like B1 Q over 2。Sorry， I didn't wait。

B1 times Q over 2。Up to Bm。Q2。Okay， that so this is a。

 So my encryption of an ambit string is little be a。A plus E。P。Kind of the message。 But with Q think。

 the message is 0， Q over2， just to make sure I can decrypt。So security is， is it secure。 Well。

 it immediately follows from the assumption。You know， even if you saw many， like CPA security。

 even if you saw many， many sitepherts。 So you saw A and A S plus E with or without B。

 you saw another A and A S plus， still， you see a new A and A， everything should look random。Okay。

 so now， okay， so let me， let me do this a， a bit slowly。So let's first talk about correctness。Okay。

 so。Let's see if we encrypt 0， Let's see if we get 0 back， if we encrypt 0， then B。

 So let's see if decryption。Of encryption。Of B， let's see what it is。Enccryption of S and B。

So what you're going to get。 So what you're going to check is if you're going to compute B。

So if we call this， sorry。Message M， and let me call this。A comma B， okay， where're B。

Is A S plus E plus M。Q over2。Okay， now how do we decrypt this？We take B， we subtract a times S。

 so we look at E plus M。😡，Q over2。Now， if this is smaller than Q over2。We output zero。Otherwise。

 one Now note， if n is 0。E。Is smaller than Cuba2。That's because it's between humans and4。

 we chose if any 0。Then this thing is equal to。It's smaller。

Then B and B will make sure it's small enough。On the other hand， if。M equals1。Then this is Q over 2。

 called it's going to be Q over2。😡，Plus for my oops， sorry， this should be Q 4。Excuse me。Did I write。

 Oh， here I wrote one。 Sorry， Okay， that's， that's the。That's how we decided to the decryption。

 If it's smaller than cube over 4， we output 0 and B is indeed。

 well take B to be smaller than Qver 4。So if it's 0， we output 0。 On the other hand， if it was one。

Then we have cube over 2 plus mine is something that's smaller than cube over 4。😡。

So you're going get something bigger than Cuba before。So， if m equals one， then。E plus Q over 2。

This is going be bigger than Cuba4。And so we're good。So correctness， we're happy。How about security。

 Let's talk about security for a second。 Let me do it here。So， now。CPAA security。

So I don't want to do it formally。 but basically， here' is the way I'm going to prove CP pay security。

 I'm going to say， suppose。For contradiction that I have an adversary。

 So suppose I have a polynomial side。Efficient。Adiversary A， that wins in the CPA game。Okay。

 that wins。With advantage。Ile完。Which is big。Okay。なの都。Okay， now let's see what does a get A。

Is talking to a challenger in the CPA game。 And he tells them I want encryption of 0 or I want encryption of 1。

 I want encryption 0。 I want encryption of  one。And he gets back every time he gets back。

And A S plus E basically can always get with or without the bit， you know。Basically。

 can always ask for encryption of 0 because he and its own can add the encryption he and its own can add or not add this。

So this adversary， when he asked， give me encryption of 0， encryption of one。

He might as well just ask only for encryption of zeros and。

And this adding doesn't make any difference。So he has to see many， many encryptions of zero。

 let's say。And then at the end， he's like， okay， now I'm ready to distinguish between encryption 0 encryption of 1。

 Give me one of them。 I'll tell you which one you give me。So finally， after he gets many of these。

 so he gets basically he gets a big A and ASS plus E because he gets many equations。And no。

 he says he's ready。 So finally， he's going to get a and A S plus E with or without。You know， like B。

Times Q over two， and he needs to get through。Yeah。

 and supposedly he's supposed to do it better than half。

But the Al Mallu assumption tells us that he cannot distinguish。Between the case， that all these。

Are El blueie or uniform？So if he wins， if he guesses， now， he guesses， he gives me prime。

Supposely guess it with good probability， better than half。I mean， not rather than half。

 I don't know three quarters。 Now， I want to guy， I can break out the Louis。

The decisional version of Al with the same epson that he with the same advantage。 Why。

 Because if I put here truly random， if I replace these。With A and uniform， truly random。

Then of course he can't guess me。 It's completely gone。It's information theoretically masked。

So information， even if it was all powerful， he wouldn't be able to guess。

But now if he's given an LW2， he can guess。So very good， No。 now you guys give me L random。

 and I'll tell you which one it is。 I'm gonna， I'm going to be the challenger for the adversary。

I'm going to give you what you gave me， either L tus or random tus。 He asked the encryption of 0。

 I'm going to give you the tuple。 He got encryption  one， I'm going give you the same tuple。

 but plus Q over 2。And every time I'm going to give him like a fresh。

 you gave me many A and A S+ C or many A in random。I sent him。One of the rows you gave me。Okay。

 either with Q over2 without depending if he has the encryption of 0 encryption of1。

 And then finally， he tells me， okay， now I'm ready for your， you know， encryption of either 01。

 your， your guess， your choice。 And I'm gonna guess。 Sure， I'm going take the last one。 You gave me。

 I'm gonna choose a random B。 I'm gonna hand it over to the adverary。 And now I see。😊，Is correctly。

 I'm going to say tel。If he didn't guess correctly， I'm going to say random。Now。

 this is a good distinguisher because for if it was random。

 he would guess on this probability half because。The bee is completely gone。 If this is random。

 it's completely masks of the bee。By assumption， if it was eligible。

 you guess this was probably half plus。Excellent。So this will distinguish between uniform and between L WE and uniform。

Questions。Okay， no questions mean I lost you or no question mean you kind of get it。Get it。 O。Okay。

 so this is symmetric encryption。I promised you， public encryption。So what do we do？

This is the most bizarre idea。 Okay， Actually， it's really one of the gems So beautiful。 Okay。

 so here is the idea。😊，Notice。😮，That this okay， some of you noticed this facts about previous encryption schemes。

 But here， let me say it explicitly。 Not this encryption scheme has a nice property。

That is what we call additive homomorphic。 And let me explain what I mean。

Suppose I give you an encryption。With S of the bit B1。

What does it mean I give you A S plus noise plus B1 times cube over 2。Now。

 suppose I give you another encryption。I forbidby， too。So I give you another A， let me call this A1。

 Okay， I give you another A， another noise。And。I air the baby2 times cubeer2。Now。

 what happens if I add。These two cipherts。 Let me add these instructions。 What do I get。I get。

A1 plus a2。Times S plus a new noise， E1 plus E2。Plus。B1 x or B2。Times Q over2。So why， why did I exor。

 I mean。Sorry， you can， it's the same。 You can do B1 plus， but。But。嗯。No， sorry。Yeah， okay， fine。

You can do B1 plus V2， but mod Q， this is。If B1 is equal to B2。Then this thing is almost cute。

 It's basically cube， therefore it's like zero。Because modq is 0。

 But if one of them is0 and one of them and one， then it's Q over 2。

So you can think of this as roughly being B1 x or B2。Times K2。Maybe I'm off by one。

 but doesn't matter because there's error here anyway。

So the point is if you just add these two cipher attacks。You get an encryption。😮。

Of S with B1 x or B2。But with like a slightly the error。A little bigger。

Before the error was between minus B B。 Now it's between2 B and 2 B。Okay， so it grew。

 but let's set our parameters up there。 So like Q is much， much bigger。

 even take Q to be super polynomial。So they are gross a little bit， not， not the end of the world。

So now， okay， so this means it's just additively homeworkmorph。 I can add as many as I want。

 I can add L cipher text。And the air will grow times out。 Every time I have a sitepher text。

 there grows by another B at most。Now， here， here is。The genius idea of ready。

How do you get a public encryption？O。The idea is the public key。The secret key is going to be。S。

 exactly as before。But you don't want to use S to encrypt。Because if you use a in， it's secret key。

So how do you， So I have my S。I don't want to tell you my S。Now， remember。

 the encryption looks like that。 It's like A S plus E plus noise。So what am I going to do？Or okay。

 I actually， what I'm going do， I'm going give you。Many encryptions of0。Kind of weird。Okay。

 but I'm going to tell you， I'm going to give you now many encryptions of 0。

 So here is like a S plus noise where a is like。Z Q M by N M is going to be big enough。

 We'll see exactly how big it needs to be。Okay， and this noise， of course， is。开。Okay。

 now this looks random。 L W E， I also give you away， sorry。Okay。

 so this is going to be the public key。Now， how do you encrypt？😮，Actually， if you。You can。

 if you want， this won't be secure。 of course， you can take one of the equations。

 let's say the first one， A and A S plus E。And you can add your bit you want encrypt。Q over two。

 you can do that。But that's no good because people will say， oh， this is the first。

Row of this matrix。And。You took the first row and added Cuba 2。 then I know this is encryption 0。

 This must be encryption of one。Or if you want encryption of 0， you can just take the first row。

 But I know people know， oh， that's encryption of 0。So， that's no good。So now， yeah。

 fix like add them exactlyly right。 That's exactly right。So what is like of this idea。

 Like of' this idea says， okay， when you want to encrypt。With public key， if you want to en zero。

Take a random subset and add them。So what do I mean a a random subset basically。Choose at random R。

In 01 to the n。Because there's aim of them。 And just the output。R times a。And R times。

 let me call this B。Our time to be。And more generally， if you want to output1。And。Times cube2。Good。

 so basically， let's， let's first think， let's say one in Cri0。Okay。

I gave you I want you guys to encrypt to me。 I have my secret S。

I don't want to give you my S if I give you this， you can encrypt you can give me a S plus E and you can choose A and give me S plus E。

😊，Plus， my message。 plus the message temp Q over2。 but I don't want to give you S。So instead。

 I'm just going to give you a bunch of encryptions of 0。O， these are M site protected0。

The first row times the first row S plus noise， second row。

 Second row S times noise and so on and so forth。Now， when you want encrypt zero to me。

What I'm going to tell can tell you， take a random。Subset of this cipherax。 and add them up。

Why why is it good， Well， it's addably nomorphic。 So you add up its some coefficient of 0。Now。

 you can ask about security。Well， when you add up， is it still random， even if I know all this。

 or I have a bunch of encryptions of zero。😡，I mean， I posted on my website， all the encryptions of0。

 That's my public key。 And now futures a random subset of them and add them up。

Does it still look random， even though for those who see like。Given all these encryptions。

 the random subset， like adding them to the de look randomand。 the answer is， yes， turns out。

 I'll explain why。And of course， if you want encryptp1， just add the Q over two。Yeah， question。

Indeed， you're right。 The error gets multiplied。 So good。 So before the error was， let's say。

 in between minus B and B。Here， the error is going to be between n times B。And minus M times B。

 because every time it grows and there's M of M。So， the growth。

We'll just ensure that n times B is much smaller than Qver before。So we're still okay。呀。

No key agreement， nothing。This is part of。That's part of why really。

 the reason it's quantum secure because it's based on latticees and these kind of noisy linear equations。

Like solving noise linear equations turns to be， turns out to be really， really difficult。

So now I have three minutes。 Let me tell you why it's secure。 Let me try to do that in three minutes。

Okay。😊，Okay， so why is it secure， So the question is。Okay， why is it secure？So。

The security follows from two steps。Okay， so I want to say that an adversary he gets the public key。

 so now we have an adversary。😊，He gets the public key， so he gets a ASS plus E。

And then he needs to distinguish between an encryption of0 encryption of one。Right， so basically。

 let's say I give him。RA。And our。A S plus E with or without。Let wow， okay， let me call this V BM。

Yeah， I use M， but M is also the number of rows。 Let's say I want encrypt。Sorry。

 I I I noticed now that I used notation because I denoted by the message by N。

 but I also noted the number of rows in A by N。 So sorry about that。

 hopefully to clear in the from the context what I'm using， but sorry， I didnnoted that for。Okay。

 so now I want suppose the adary managerss to guess。B。With probability better than half。

 let's say half plus excellent。😡，Okay， so he gets this is the public key。And you get a ciphertext。

Like that's the encryption of B。And suppose she guesses me。I want to say then I can break all the。

Or let me say he cannot， if L is secure， he cannot do that。So why？Well， if you can guess， B。

Then by LWE， he should also be able to guess B。 If I replace this by a truly uniform matrix。

 I me call it B， where B is uniform。Random。😮，In Zq。M by n plus one。

 So this is kind of the last row of the the last column of the matrix。So this is。

 you can think of this as a matrix with Ms。And n plus one columns， This is kind of the last column。

And this is R times B。Plus。B cube2。So by the LW assumption。

 this adversary doesn't know he can't tell if he got this or this。Either way， he gets B in R B。

 but B is either L W or uniform， and he guesses B。Well， if he gets here， he should guess here too。

 with probability half plus exon， maybe minus some negligible。But otherwise， we broke out theE。

Now the claim is。😮，That this， if you set the parameters correctly。This is really。Uniform。

And this is by the leftover。Pashlam， which you saw already。Did we？It's in this somewhere？Previous。

 yeah。Yeah， these it2。 Okay， so this really follows from the left over half them if we set the parameters correct。

So， as long as M。Is large enough？So as long as O， so the leftover haschlam the。we're out of time。

 anyway， it falls from leftover has Lama。 you can look at the notes exactly the parameters we need here。

 But that's basically just an application of the leftover has Lama。 Let me just say， now that you're。

 you know， I spend a lot of time writing lecture notes。 And I really hope that for the midterm。

 you'll read them because I theres there's a lot that I want to say about them in class。

 And I don't have time。 And so hopefully the midterm will be kind of encouraging you to look at them and read them。

 And And then yeah， so that's part of what's there。 But much more。 Okay， So if good luck studying。

 And if you need us just let us know。😊。