# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p02 6.5620 Lecture on 9⧸8⧸2025 (Mon).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p2-

Okay。You're back， good。Okay， so let me just do a very quick recap about what we covered last time and where we're gonna head today。

 So we started by talking about perfect security。 We're gonna to veer away from that today。

 So you had one kind of fun lecture where things were perfect。

 no longer the case throughout the semester。😊，But we defined this notion of encryption scheme。

 and we， in particular， we defined the notion of like this perfect security。

 We gave two definitions and proved that they're equivalent。

The first is the Shannon security definition that basically says。That no matter what distribution。

 you know， like whatever information you have about the message I'm being encrypted。

 So you may know it comes from some distribution。 but whatever a priori information you have。

 which he captures as like a distribution。Whether you learn a ciphertext。

An encryption of M from this distribution。Doesn't help you guess what M is。So the for。M。

 the probability。That M occurs that this small M is sampled from the distribution big M。Is the same。

 even conditioned and seeing the Cyexxi。So even if you know that the encrypted message。

 M is distributed from this distribution。 Big M is C， still the probability is the same。

So the conditional probability is the same as non conditioning。

 So the separate text doesn't tell you anything about the message。Yeah。

 thats kind of was Shannon's definition。Later， we defined equivalent definition was shown and we proved equivalentence last time。

 which I think is much just more intuitive because we don't even think about conditional probabilities and it just says that any two message。

 any two messages in the message space， M0 or M1。😊，If you look at encryption。Of M0 with a random key。

 K or encryption of M1 with a random K K。 have exactly the same distribution。

It's really the exact same distribution。 So for every type C。

 the probability that you see C when you encrypt them 0， it's the exact same probability。

As you see C， if you encrypt them one。 So when you see， C， it doesn't give you any information。

Where the probabilities are overcaned。So here it's over M。This is kind of over M。

 Here' is over K and M。And these are over k。 So K meaning random。 When I say over K， I mean random。

In the sorry， no longer。 random in the key space。O， so basically。

 the distribution of P cry time 0 M M 1， exact same distribution。

 So the Cytex doesn't give you any information。Okay， and we showed that theyre equivalent。

This seems like a very， very strong definition。 So wonderful。

 And not only does it seem so strong and so great， we also achieved it using a very。

 very simple scheme， which is the one time pad。😊，Okay， so where you just take。

 you think of the message， let's say as an N bit string， whatever N B， whatever。

 how long you want your messages to be。And then to encrypt， you just exhort it with a secret key。

 And to the thecipher textex， you again exhort with a secret key。 So you kind of you mask。

 and then you undo the mask。Becauseuse when you exo and Xor， it gets rid of it。O。That's it。 And we。

 we proved even that this is perfect secure， so wonderful。😊，Yeah。

 and then we ended with kind of noticing get all great， except that。You can only use it once。

Or another way to say it。Is that So， okay， we， we said you can only use it once。

 I actually want to say one word about it， because some two people asked me about it。

 So I want to make sure。So why can you only use it once？ What we showed last time is we said， well。

 if you use it twice and encrypt， let's say M 0 and M1。 So if you use it twice and get。

 let's say you see C 0， which is an encryption。Of M 0。 And you get C1， which is encryption。Of M1。

 So if you and I share a secret key， and then I send you M 0。 And later I send you M1。 So first。

 I send you N0 encrypted。 So you got。Mz X Ok， Then I send you， M1 encrypted。 You got M1 X O。Now。

 I said this is a breach。 Why， because what the adversary can see， he can exhort these things。

And you can get M0， x or M1。And that's terrible。那。The question I got， which is a great question。

 I It was kind of， I didn't explain this well enough in class。 So let me try to improve here。

Why is this a breach of security， So that person on that or probably has no idea what it means。

 You know， you take two messages。 You exc together。 The diversity sees that。

What the hell can he learn from that。Yeah， that's kind of the， the question。And the answer is。

 and this is a very important thing to understand。Is that we。

 you need to think adversararily in this class。 One of the things that you're gonna learn in this class is to really think like you're an adversary。

And theverary can。So maybe if everything is honest and you send in 0 and M1。

 maybe the can't learn anything truee。 I'm not saying this is always meaningful。

All I'm saying is sometimes it's meaningful， for example。Suppose the adversary， his goal。

 is to learn the key。 Maybe the adversary can cause， you can kind of interact with the system。

 Maybe the adversary can cause me to send you a message that he knows what it is。Yeah。

 let's say I don't know。 He sends me a message Like， I'm Amazon。

 Can you send your network this message that he knows what it is。 No， I send it。So he knew I'm zero。

Oh， now he knows him。Actually， if you knew him zero in C is C0。He knows the key。

So now he's we doomed。Okay， so again， even though sometimes information can appear。

Not too sensitive or， oh， you know， because we're thinking of ourselves as honest people。

 and we think， oh， this probably doesn't give， you know， it's not too bad to release。

But what I want you to do in this class is put yourself in the， in the shoe of an adversary。

And whenever you're dealing with cryptography or security， that's how you should think。

 Don't think of yourself as an honest human being。 Think of yourself as an adversary that's just trying to attack the system。

And will you be able。To， to make this seemingly fine， perhaps maybe information。

Can you somehow make kind of exploit this and attack the system。Okay。

 and that's basically why this kind of information is not okay。Because if I'm an adversary。

 I may make you encrypt a message 0 that I know。 Then I have the key。

 And now I can read your further messages。Okay， so that's and and lastly。

 what we showed so you can encrypt more than once。 But really another thing is that the key space。

 the key， if you want to encrypt M bits。You need to share if you want to encryptto message of Link N and bits。

 you need to share a key LinkedIn。So if we want to communicate a lot， we need to share a big key。

 And that seems a little annoying because like one of the great remarks that were said last time is。

 well， then why not just meet， if we need a meeting and agree and a key。

 why just not meet and I'll whisper the message。So there are still benefits。

 And as I mentioned last time， the one time Pa was actually used a lot in practice in wars and so on。

 it has been used a lot。 People were like taking briefcase with these pads。

 and then they could kind of communicate using kind of these random bits。 So it was used。Because。

 you know， sometimes you agree on a keyeel beforehand。

 And now you're separated and you want to send messages that， you know， you only learn about later。

 So it is useful， but it is a big drawback。And what we're going to do today is show how to overcome。

 And this drawback is not about this scheme only。 I mean， in this scheme， indeed， you need。

The keys of the same length of the width of the message， of course， by definition。

But what Channon showed is。Scheme that achieves this kind of security has this drawback。Okay。

 so it's not just the one time pad。 It's kind of any scheme that has achieved this definition of security。

The keys are going to need to be large。So， that's kind of unfortunate。

So what we're going to do today。Is try to see how we weaken this definition。

And go from kind of perfect security to computational security。And。

And we weaken the definition so as to overcome this impossibility。

So what we're going to head to like this this week and also later is show how to relax the notion of security。

 the computational security。 And then we're going to show how using this notion。

 we can actually construct a scheme。😊，Where the keys are actually small。And for this week。

 we're still， let's just talk about one message。 Let's say we encrypt one message。

 Let's not talk about encrypting many message。 We'll get there maybe next week。

 but for now our goal is still we want to encrypt one message。

 but we want the message to be much larger than the secret key。 So we want to agree in a small key。

 And then later we want to encrypt a really， really large message。That's kind of our goal。For now。

 And then we'll show how to encryptp many messages。ok。Questions about last time。 Que about the plan。

 Question about anything。Nothing really， You don't have anything for me。Okay。

 so I just want to remind you， I really like questions。 So if you want to make me happy。

 ask some throughout class today。😊，And if you don't ask you so， you， you're better off asking me。嗯。

OK。Let's start。Oh， by the way， let me just mention Pet1 is out。 It was out on Friday。

 due in two weeks， like Friday， two weeks。From Friday。 And I think by the end of this class。

 you will be able。 by the end of today， you'll be able to。Do most of the piece。

 And I'll let you know which ones， which problems you're still。

ICan't do by then to class once I see how much I cover。Okay， but let's start。So， okay。

 before I actually go and define what computational security means。You know， when we hit a wall。

 this is kind of in general。 I want to give you kind of general principles that we as cryptographers kind of deal with。

 Okay， and you'll need to deal with if you want to join us， Okay， so。When we hit a wall。

 when you have this negative result saying， oh， any secure scheme， keys have to be big。Well， no。

 we don't want big keys。 Okay， so we need to understand what is this negative result in order to understand how to overcome it。

 So why， why is it that the keys need to be so big？ So let me quickly recall。

 I did it quite fast in the last five minutes of class last time。So let's go over why。

The keys indeed， need to be big。What's the proof why of Shannon's theorem。

 Why is it that the key are so large？ And once we understand why maybe we can tweak the definition a little bit。

So to overcome this negative result， this barrier。Okay， so let's recall。

 So the way maybe I'll do it here。Okay， so here's the reason。Okay， so let's do proof。I'll do proof。

 kind of by picture of。o k。Okay， so suppose。You have a scheme where that。

Key is smaller than the number of messages。So there's less keys than possible messages。Then。

 the claim is。That by the correctness of the scheme。There must exist。There exists。2 messages。

 M0 and M1。 Let me call them in the message space， such that if you look at all the possible encryption of M 0。

 So let's look at like。This， let's call it all the possible encryption。than 0。

 So for every possible K。 So this is a set of size， kind of。K。O， for every possible key。

 let's look at the possible cybertex encrypting M 0。

And let's look at all the possible Cypher attacks encrypting M1。

There must exist to Nz and M1 that are not exactly the same。 They may overlap。Okay， so such that。

If you look at the set encryption of。K，N M'm 0。And it's not the same as the set of encryption。Of M1。

Wow， Andrew， thank you。 This is upgrade。 Thanks a lot。 I got a better shot from Andrew。 Okay。

 so there must these two messages that they may， it may look like this。

 It may be it may overlap a lot， but they're not the same。 Theres some distinction。 Okay。

 this is encryption。Of K and M1。Why is it， Why is the case that when I don't have many keys。

 Why is it the case that they handle， like in the in， in the onetime pad。

 they're all the same for every message。 If you look at the encryption of key in the message。

 it's everything in 01 to  then。Because you go over all the keys in zero， all the keys。In01 to then。

 you export the message。 Eventually you'll cycle over。 You'll get all the possible ciphertex。

So for one time， Pa。They said。If you go over all the keys， it's just your one to them。For M0， M1， M2。

 it's all the same thing，0，1 to N。But now， the claim is。If the key is smaller than the message space。

 there can't we。O， can be the the。This set of all the possible Cypherts。

 corresponding time 0 is the same for everyM。Why。😡，Because there's too many Ms。Okay， in other words。

 they will break correctness。 Why suppose it's all the same。Now， decrypt them。For each one of them。

For， for， sorry， for。For each。For each cipher to how many cipherts here。

 the number of cphertexs here is only like a。送。😡，Each saferpher text here。You， when you decrypt。

 you're going to get only K possibilities。But M is bigger than。 So one。

 one of them you're not going to get。Okay， so it will kind of break correctness， basically。

So you have to have two that are not completely overlapping like they did in the one time pad。

With these two， I'm going to break security。Okay， so now I'm going to show you how I break。

 So perfect and distinguishability says that for every possible M 0 and M1。

 you have the exact same distribution。 The encryption of M 0 is exactly the same encryption M 1。😊。

But here， it's not the case。 encryptncion of M0 are distributed here。

An encryption in that one is distributed here。So it's not the exact same distribution。

Or in other words， how will I break？ Let me actually show you， yeah， so。Let me actually show you。

 you know， an alternative definition that we mentioned last time for perfect indistinguishability。

 We didn't prove that it's equivalent， but I told you to stare at it， and you'll be convinced。

 I don't know if you got a chance to stare， if not， try to stare。

 but the equivalent definition to indistinguishability says， for any algorithm。

Or any adversary that gets an encryption。Of key and either M0 and M1。 So thever gives M 0 and M1。

 Now he gets encryption of one of them with a random key。

He needs to guess if you get encryption of 0 encryption of M1。

He should succeed on his probability behalf。This is equivalent to the indistinguishability。Okay。

So now I want to claim this M0 and M1。 You can break then distinguishability。 You can break this。

 How， let me be in a。 I'll show you how to distinguish how I'm going to distinguish。

 You give me encryption of 0 encryption of one。Eryption M 0 and M1。 What will I do。Well， Ill look。

 if your encryption is here， I don't know。 It can be either or I'm gonna to say random。

But if it's here， I'm going to say 0。And if it's here， I'm going say one。

And then if it's here or here， I succeed it's probability1 because it can't。

This cannot be encryption of M 0， because it doesn't intersect all the possible encryptions of M0。

So I， if I am here， I suppose probably have。But I'm not always here。

Because we said it's not completely overlapping。So there are some cphert F M1 that are not an M0。

And we， we follow one of these hypertext with probability。 I don't know。

 at least like one over two to the lambda。 There is at least one。Sociphertex here， which sorry。

 said Lada。 Let's we called it N。 Sorry， O， so if the number of keys， if we call this。

 let's say two to n。If theres n keys， like if the keys of length N， like in the one time pad。

 let me just， S， let's the key length by n。Then， with probability， at least。1 over2 to the n。

We guess correct？So namely， if you encrypt。If you actually to encrypt time 0。

 there's at least one element here。And it appears with probability， you know，1 over two to1。

 because each key is chosen at random。And if it falls here， I actually guess it's probability 1。

So I guess with probability， at least。Half。Plus， one over two to then。So， which is。Half。

Plus  one over2 to then。 slightly more than half。And， of course， if， if， if the， I mean。

 this is assuming almost everything is， is in the is the same， but。The more this jointin there are。

 the higher probability I have to。To cheat。So this is kind of the idea behind Shannon's。

Imposibility result。Questions。How would yeah。Oh， good。 Great question。 How can I， Very good question。

 How can I tell him in the center or not， It's a hard question。 Here's what I'm going to do。

 It'll take me a long time， but here's what I'm going to do。 You gave me an encryption。

I'm going to go over all possible keys。Corsponing time 0 and see if I can get。 So I get a Cyphertex。

 I'm thedary。 I a Cyphertex C。What I'm going to do。

 I'm going over all the possible keys and C and compute encryption of key and M 0。

If one of them and see if I got， you know， did I hit it or not。

I'm going to do the same thing with M1。 I'm going to go for all the possible keys encrypting M1。

 see if I hit it。Now， if only one hit it。Then if both hit it， then I'm in the center。If， if both。

 I found a key that encrypten 0， I found a key that encrypt M1， then I'm in the center。

 and I'm going to guess because I don't know which one。But if only one of them。Then I。

 then I guess correctly for sure， because， it does。 It sounds like for close course1 is other。

 to the other message。Yeah， fantastic。 great question。 Thank you， yeah。😊，特びな。

Their exception can be nothing。 And then I guess with probability 1， indeed， in many schemes。

 actually， for even random messages， it can be nothing。 So， yes。

 I'm just being kind of as adversarial to myself as I can， yeah。Great， great questions， guys。Good。

 so， so now I want to overcome this impossibility result。Now。

 going back to the question to the great questions here， note。How did I break it。

 I go over all the possible keys and check is Can it be an encryption of M0。

 Can it be an encryption of M1。Takes a long time。 I need look over all possible keys。Now， typically。

 let's think of the key as like， I know，256 B。Really， can I run in time 2 to the 2，56。

 That's more than the number of molecules in the universe。So， yeah， like if。Theoretically speaking。

 but there's no way。 So maybe it is secure。 Like maybe， you know， I mean， maybe I can do it。 So。

 in other words， yeah， I can say， okay， if the adverary runs in that long time。

 which is completely impossible in our world。Then yeah， you can break。But， you know。

 I'm assuming my Jerseyers can't， you know， run in time。

 That's more than the number of molecules in the universe。 That seemed like a reasonable assumption。

So assuming the adversary doesnt one in tanon is bigger than the number of molecules in the universe。

 do we get security。Maybe yes。That's exactly what computational security is about。So now， okay。

 so now this has exactly brought us into where we want to be。 like， okay。

 if he can run an infinite time， Yes， he can break。But now， let's restrict our adversary。

To an adversary that runs not an infinite time。Okay， so that's computational security。

 So how will we restrict our， our adversary， Let's think。One option。

 which is actually how kind of practitioners work。They say， you know what。

 I assume that the averary cannot run in time more than， I don't know，2 to the 1，28。 That seems like。

Too much。 in reality， there's no way， you know， you can do 2 to the 1，28 steps in a computer。

 It's again， huge。 And therefore， you know， I'm okay。 And now let's， let's build schemes。In theory。

 it turns out to be much more convenient。To define computational security， using asymptotics。And we。

 we kind of follow the the footsteps of complexity theory。 So in complexity theory。

 when we say something is efficient or feasible， we usually we efficiency as polynomial time。

And kind of things that are more than polyial time。 They're not efficient。

 That's kind of usually the dichotomy that we think of in complexity theory。

 whatever it' is polynomial time computable， that's kind of efficient。

 more than polynomial time comp， that's not efficient。Will followed exactly that economy。

 So I want to mention kind of off the bat。It doesn't actually model reality that well， because。

Things can be in polynomial time， but yet completely infeasible。Okay， it depends on the constant。

 If the constant， if your linear time， but the content is two to the 2，56。It's not feasible。So， it's。

It's a proxy for efficiency。 But one needs to remember when we prove things and we。

 when we use complexity theory in this way that it can。Kind of very fast。 Be kind of。Divege from。

 from reality of what's efficient。 what's not efficient。 Okay。

 but that's usually kind of the way we think of， of the way we model efficiency。

 also in cryptography。Okay。So how is that done。So I said we wna。

 we want to restrict our adversary to be efficient。 What is efficient， as I said， in complexity。

 polynomial time。So now we don't want to say for any adversary here。

Do I must say only for polynoial time adversaries？Plumial what。Well usually in， in complex in。

 in algorithms， we say an algorithms run in polynomial time in the input。But what's the input， Well。

 the input is what， It's a encrypted message。 What if the message is 1 bit， Yes， no。

 I want to send you yes or no。Now， O， so I don't want to be polynomial in one。 So where。

 wheres the where is it coming from， Where is the polynomial coming from。And the answer is。

 it's going to come from the key。So。What we're going do。

 We're going to say we're going to be we're gonna to have。 So when we talk about。

Computational security。 we're gonna to have what we call a security parameter。

We're going to denote it。 And this class we' going by Lada。Sometimes people denot it by n。

 the security parameter kind of， I think sometimes even ks used just if you read kind of lecture other。

 if you look at the books or other lecture notes that you can find on the website will denote by lambda。

 but another way to denote by n or by K， these are also typically Lambda N are the most used for security parameter。

And what is the security parameter， This security parameter， Basically。

 it governs the length of the secret key。 For now， we're going to think of the key size。

As being an element of 0，1 to the lambda。Now， it's not going to be like that every time。 Okay。

 as we'll go， as we'll continue in this class， we're gonna actually separate the security parameter from the key length。

And the killings will not need to be the key will not just be random like it was so far。

 It We're actually going to allow it to come from some key generation algorithm。But that's for later。

 for now， we'll think of there are some security parameter。

 We'll think of the key as being chosen random from 0，1 to the security parameter to the Lambda。

And this Lada is going govern how long it takes to break the scheme。Okay， so basically。

 the bigger land that is， the harder it is to break this scheme。

So we're going to say our scheme is secure for an adversary that runs in time， polynomial and Lada。

So if lambda is very small， it kind of won't be that interesting。 as you increase Lada。

 the more secure the scheme will become。Okay， so that's how that's kind of how we do it。

 So let me try to define。A computational secure encryption now。Okay， so here's the definition。

So明 that you all have room。The key is going to be chosen in 0，1 to the lambda。Okay。

 so here's the another definition。So now we're going to say an encryption scheme。Is associated。With。

 remember， we said it has a key space， a message space and a Cytex space。

And then it had an encrypted decrypt algorithm。Now， the key space。

Is it depends on the security parameter basically。 So with a key space。

It's basically for each security parameter。There's going be a different key space。And again， for us。

 we'll think of the key as just being 0，1 to the lambda。Okay， but basically for every lambda。

You have a different key space。 So it depends on the security you want。

So it depends how paranoid you are or how powerful you think your adversary is。So， for。

The key space for every lamb。 you have a set of keys。Again， for now。

 we'll think of the keys as just being of length lambda question。By making a huge。 Great。

 great question。 Is there anything to lose by making a huge lamb for， for security。 No。

 you just gain。But for efficiency， yes。So the bigger gamma。

 the bigger Lada is the more also the honest， encrypt and deced honestly。

 you'll need to spend more time。So there's always this tension between how practical your scheme is to the honest users。

😮，And how difficult it is to break for the malicious guy。And so typically。

 you don't want to make things too secure。Because we're paying for it by the efficiency of the honest users。

 So like in practice， people try to reduce the security parameter as much as possible to make it more efficient in practice。

But this is a theory class。 So we don't need to think about these things。But yeah， and actually。

 the choice of the security parameter。 what it is changes all the time because， you know。

 it used to be that， you know， our computer is weaker。 now they're stronger。 And the faster they are。

 you know， we kind of increase， used to be that， I know，20 years ago。

 maybe the security camera was like 64。 Now it's 2，56。 you know， so。Yeah。

 things changed depending on how fast ourdary can， can work。Great， great question。 Thank you。

More questions。Okay， so we have this key space and a message space。

That we're going to also allow to depend on Lada， even though many of our。啊啊。Schemmes。

It does the message space can。 often it's just 0，1。 We encrypt bits。 So encrypt bit by bit by bit。

 Okay， so you want to encrypt a0 we encrypt it we encrypt kind of one by one。 But let's put it aside。

 in general， the message space can also depend on number。

 They can also grow with the security parameter。And we have a ciphert space。

Which also grows with lambmbda。And that must grow with Lada because， of course。

 it depends on the key。It's a function of the key too。 So it also goes with themda。

And you have the same encryption and decryption algorithms。 So it's okay。

 And so' associated with these things and two algorithms encrypt and decrypt。And again。

 we're going to think of them as like for every lambmbda。You have an encryptlamda， which takes a key。

And the message and outputs a safer text。And the Kb clamda。That takes a key。Acipher text。

And output'll put to the message。And it seems like we have completely different。The way I wrote it。

In this notation， it seems like， oh， there's a completely different encryption for every security parameter。

But， no， actually。You can think of it。 It's one encryption algorithm that takes the security parameter。

 and then it works for keys of that security parameter。

 message corresponds to that security parameter and out the Cytex corresponding to the security parameter。

Okay， but this is just a way。 It's like， or in other words。

 theres one encrypted algorithm that you tell them Lambda。Then he kind of uses this algorithm。Okay。

 so it's， it's a what we say it's a uniform algorithm。

 It's not like an entirely different thing for every lambmbda。

 You just need to tell what lambda So he knows kind of which keys to expect and which messages to expect。

O。Now， let's talk about completeness or correctness and security。

So the correctness is exactly as before， no different， so correctness。Says that for every lambmbda。

No matter what the security problem is， for every message。And fabric key。If you are decrypt。

With this key。The encryption， I guess， will'll have lamb。encryption。Of。TNM。You get back。Okay， so。

This is exactly as before。 And by the way， from now on。

I've just omit the Lada here when I talk about encryption decryption。 Okay， just。

 it' be probably clear from the context。Okay， so this is correctness。Now。

 what that's kind of exactly is before。 This is no real different。 Now， let's talk about secrecy。

 And I'm going to call it now computational security。But again， from now on we say security。

 it's computational。 The I， the ideal definition is going to vanish from the earth basically。

 And we're only gonna talk about computational from now until then to class and then to the course。

Okay， so how do we， what is computational security， So basically， we want to do the exact same thing。

But we're bounded at truth three。So what do we say， We say instead of for every ad。

 for every polynomial time adary。So， for every。Okay， so we want to say polynomial time。 Actually。

 we use a little。 So how do we model the adversary。

 So we said in complexity theory efficiency mean polynomial time。

 So we want to model as polynomial time。But our dresswick toss coins。

So we want to say for every probabilistic polynomial time。

So for every probabilistic phenomenonmintime adversary， we want to say the probability。

That this adversary。 Oh， and for every。呃。Lada。And for every M0 and M1。The probability。Oh。

 I forgot to hear also bees jokes in it random。 forgot to write。So the probability A。

 he chooses M0 and M1。😮，He's given encryption。So our random key is chosen。

And he's given an encryption of one of them at random。 So a bes chosen at random。

And he is going to be given an encryption of either I'm 0 or M 1。 Each one's probability half。

And his goal is to guess B。Now， of course， he can guess with probability h by just guessing a random B。

And we want to say， well， he can't succeed more than half， right， Like thats， that seems like the。

Equivalent here。呀。Oh， good。 What is pro polynomial time。Okay， and so let me just write half。For now。

 and now I'll get to that。 Okay， so how going back is I want to say more about this。

We model the address as being efficient。Usually efficient。 We mean it's a polynomial time。 namemely。

 there's a Ting machine that like the aary runs basically some Ting machine。

 and the Ting machine has。Pnomial number of computations。 So， you know， I don't know。

 lambmbda to the Lada Lada square Lada to the third some fixed lambda to the C for some fix C computations。

But。The risk can toss coins。So the trim machine， I can also allow it。To have like a random tape。

 Maybe it's helpful to toss coins。 you know， random randomized algorithms are useful。

 and they can do more than we。We think they can do more than just deterteric algorithms。

 We don't know Maybe they can't。 whether P is equal to BPP is still open， but we believe it's not。

 So we believe randomized randomization helps you。And thatver we can also toss coins。

 So now probabilistic polynomial time algorithm is we think of it as a Ting machine。

That runs in polynomial number of steps。 So we lambda to the C for some fix C。

 And it also has a step a tape where just random bits are appear on that tape。

 And you can use this random bits in his decisions。Okay。So that's how we model averary。 But actually。

 we allow we model them even stronger than that。😊，We even so this is kind of in many notes。

 you'll see probabilistic polynoial time。 We denoted by， by the way， this is denoted by PT。

Pro forial time。But we also， actually， we consider even stronger adversaries。

And the stronger adversaries that we consider is instead of this， Andrew， can other color。Thank you。

So instead of just provosive polynomial time， will'll allow him to be a polynomial size。

 we call poly size adversary and awesome thanks slide。And poly size， basically what we mean。

 you can also think of it as a t machine。 But now， instead of having a random tape。

 you can have some auxiliary tape， like fixed non uniform advice。

 not depending on the key or anything， but just a fixed nonun advice。Okay， so maybe， and this advice。

 you know how train machine is's a constant sized thing。

But maybe that person has some advice more than constant size。 I don't know。

 Maybe he got like I don't know。 Ch GP helped him and gave him like a nonized thing that like， a。

 you know， advice。So typically， we allow the adversary to not just or another way to say we model the adversary as a polynomial science circuit。

Okay， so poly science， we mean the adversary。 You can think of it as a circuit。He takes his input。

 the encryption。Of key and M or M B。 And it just circuit that has， I don't know。

 You can think of additional multiplication not to， for example。

And the size of this circuit is polyial。But the structure of it， it'， it's not constant science。

So the structure of it is like the non uniform advice。 So basically， we allow the algorithm。

 It needs to run in polynomial time， but it doesn't need to be described by constant bits like Turing machine。

 T machine is like a constant。Creature。But circuits to describe them to。

 to find them or takes a show to give it to someone。 Like， I can give you a T machine。

 I to send you cards a number of bits to run them。 You need to spend a lot of time。

 But to just transfer the t machine， just cut a number of bits。A circuit。Basically。

 it's like the size of the circuit。 It can be big if it runs in time T。

 I need to send you this T bits of information。 Like， where's， where are the gates。

 What are they connecting， What are how the wire structure。Okay， and typically， and now。

Poly size circuit is more general than probabilsistic polynomial time。Okay， because any T machine。

 any randomized， basically， you can think of。A if you have a randomized Ting machine。

Fix the best randomness。 So you have an adversary。 Let's say you have an adversary that succeeds If he's given a random tape。

 So there's a term machine。 He has a random tape， and he succeeds with some good probability。😊，Now。

 I'm going to fix the tape to the best possible tape he can get。How I find this data best possible。

 I don't know， but there is one best possible。And now， now look at that computation。 Now。

 this computation is not conized anymore because you needed to explain why。

 what is this best randomness that you fixed。Now， it becomes a noncon size。So basically。

 when I say polynomial size circuits， if you're not familiar with kind of the model of， of circuits。

 though。You shouldn't。 You should know circuits， I think by now。 But if you're not。

 you can think of it as a tuuring machine that has a tape with some kind of device。

 non uniform advice。 So n bits of or or poorly lambda bits of。Some advice。O。

 and that I call a polynomial size adversary。So it's not just the runtime is polynomial。 Also。

 the size can be polynomial。As opposed to triming machine where the size is constant。Okay。Questions。

Okay， so let me just finish the definition。 then we'll take a couple minute break。But O。

 so what did we say， We say a probabilistic for any probabilistic polynomial time algorithm。

He cannot guess。If I give him， he gives me M0 and M for So for every lambda， he gives me M 0 and M1。

And I cu a random。This is not mine。 I choose a random one of them。And give him back。

The encryption of that message。And it's secure， if you can't guess。Good。Okay， let me tell you。

 this definition is not achievable。Now， you should be annoyed kind of ya computational not achievable。

So let's take a couple minute break。And I want you。

 maybe if you have the energy during the break to think， why is it not achievable。And as a hint。啊。

Remember this picture。Okay， this picture is basically the reason。

The fact that these two do not completely overlap。The same reason， basically。

 the same reason why Shannon was not achievable， the same lower bound， the same proof。That， you know。

 the keys。Needs to be large。Hold， we didn't fix the problem， basically。Okay， but we will。

 I promise to do by tiny， tiny fix。 So let's take like a three minute break， and then we'll continue。

Okay， should we continue。Anybody have an idea why， why this is not achievable。

 What needs to be relaxed。 Yeah， the this kind definition is。

adversary that they just try say put the number of。Eggs。Which just said muchness than。

But it it really gives me a type advantage have exactlyact， so exactly， let me repeat， even。

 not even Paul， you're right。 Basically， here's what I'm going to do as an adversary。

I get asidepher text， I have no idea I to lies here， here， here， I don't know。

I'm going to guess one key。Okay， let me thats a key。And I'm going to check。

 is encryption with this K and M0。G giveive me the Cy text that I got。 So I'm going to guess a key。

With this key， I'm going to compute this and try to see if this is what I got。

And I'm going do with M1 and try to see what I got。If it's exactly what I got。

I'm going to output that。Yeah， so namely if with this， it's， it's what I if with a key and M 0。

 it's this。 And with M wanted its not that， I'm going say， okay， M' 0。And if the same with I。

 why'm do the same one。And if it's if it's neither。Well， I didn't succeed。 So I'm going to say half。

 like， I'm going to guess。The point is that。Gives you me a minuscule， like a one over two lambda。

Probability of， of some advantage。 It's small。 It seems pathetic。But， it's。Yeah， I agree。

 It's small and pathetic。But it's。So I can't exactly like， I。So basically， it's half something tiny。

 tiny， tiny。 So in the example， I said， when I said， okay， I'm going to guess a key。And Jack。

 maybe it's encryption of， maybe the separateized encryption of M0 with that key or give you number M1 with that key。

Yes， I'm good。Now， yes， the probability that I succeed in this is only one over two of the lambda when I'm doing security practice。

It's tiny in practicality。 It's like 0。But it's not  zero。 It's something。

So I need to correct for that。So I need to say it's at most this。Plus。Tiny， but what is this tiny。

 How do I model tiny。So。Tiny should be0 in practice。What is zero in practice。So basically。

 the way we model timing in practice， we think it's smaller than one over poly for every possible poly。

Okay， something that happens with probably smaller than one over lambmbda squared， lambda third。

 lambda to the 100， Ladaeth to 1000。That's tiny。Okay。

 so this brings us to the notion the way we define tiny。

Is we define this notion of a negligible function。 So let me define it。We say that new。

A function from naturals to natural。Is， and we call it negligible。Meegles was the word for tiny。啊。

Forever。Polynomial。P。That goes from N10。There exists some constant， let me call it big lambda。

S to that。For every lambda， bigger than this constant。

New of lambda is smaller than one over P of lambda。So， yeah。Again， sorry。呃。Yeah， so mu is a function。

 It takes natural numbers to natural numbers。And it should。Oh， sorry。Thank you。 No understand。

 Thank you。Thank you very much。 Mue takes a natural number。😊，It should take it to something very。

 very small。Okay， it takes an actual number to something1 number between 0，1。 It should go to 0。

And we say it's negligible。 It goes to zero very fast。 in the sense that。For any polynomial。

If you take for La， big enough。It will be smaller than one over the polynomial and Nada。

So with's smaller than one over poly for every poly from lamb the large enough。Of course。

 you can't You can't expect it to be。Smaller for every possible lambda， because， you know。

 for a mu of 7 is a fixed number。 and you can take a polynomial that's just， you know。

 it's when polynomials， you can， you can play with the coefficients to be whatever constant you want。

 But the guarantee is。As in the that for big enough lambda。It will become。

 So eventually will will become smaller than one of rep polyli for every possible polynomial。 Okay。

 so this function kind of goes down， decreases faster。Then one over polyly， Pri Poly。

Questions about this definition。In any negligible function we think of。Like in practice。

 we think of negative function as being 0。O， because it goes down so fast。 it's really， really。

 really close to 0。It's so close to 0。 an event that happens with Ne probability。

 A like it never happens。喂。😮，It says。Oh， sorry， this。 Thank you。 I see confused faces。 And I'm like。

 what are you guys confused about， Sorry， thank you very much。 Yeah， so for every。Lmbda， big enough。

It should go down。 Okay， I， I was trying to， is， is this better。Any question？ Okay， good。Well。

 thank you for the confused feedback。 at least， that was helpful。😊，Okay， great。

 So now let's change this definition。 So now we want for every polynomial time， a algorithm。😊，哎。

There exists。A negligible function， mu。Such that for every lambda in every M0 M1。This is at most。😮。

So， yeah， you may have advantage over half， but this advantage goes to 0。Very， very fast。O。

 the bigger the lambda is the like the fastest it goes to 0。

 And this is often denoted by the advantage。Okay， so again， we now。

 the computational security says that for any polynomial size adversary。 So any efficient。

 we call them also efficient adversary。Yeah， he can。 He can guess there is some tiny。

 tiny advantage that he has mute， which is negligible。

And now we have to guarantee that for every lambda， every M M1 that he chooses。

The probability that we give them a random andor。M B for random B。

 And guesses V is at most half plus this tiny minuscule， negligible mu， mu of Lada。Okay。

 questions about the definition about。So far， yeah。Okay， good。

 So now let's go back to that attack and see what he can do， right， Let's see。 So there's a question。

 can this be realized， is this definition。You know。Even that answer is。I don't know。

 We'll see complicated。 Okay， but let's look， look at that tap for a second。

 Still what the adverary can do， He can guess some keys。

 He's running polynomial time so he can guess like polynomial many keys。 like was suggested。

 He can guess because he has the time。 polynomial。 He'll guess polynomial many keys and hope to be lucky。

😊，Hope I know to he'll maybe computer。 He'll guess keys probably many Comp encryption with this key。

 And I'm 0 M1， and see if he hits。But he has only preliminary possible options。

The probability that he actually hit。This specific cipher tax is very， very small。

Because we'll think of the Cyphertex as being like one over two to the lambda。

And he gets like polyly over one over each one he get， He succeeds probably one over to the V lambda。

 So maybe he'll succeed like that kind of an adversary may have an advantage of like poly Lambda。😊。

Over2 to the lambda or something。 It's still tiny。 It's's this is， this is negligible。

And in the homework， you have a question about negligible functions。 You can。

 I encourage you to do it like even tonight or tomorrow to kind of you'll get some sense of what negligible kind of play with it a little bit。

Any other questions。Okay， so the next question you should all ask is， can we achieve this definition。

Yeah， that's the hope we've worked so hard to come up with a good definition。

 Now can we actually achieve it with small keys。So now what I want。

 I want a key of size Lada Then I want to encrypt messages of poly Lambda size。O，2 lambda，4 lambda。

 lambda squared。 Can I do that。And the answer is， I don't know。And I'll tell you why。 I don't know。

Because。If it happens to be the case， I hope it's not。 But if it happens to be the case。

 that P is equal to NPp。There's no way you can do that。Why， because if p equal N P。Then， basically。

The the question is， right， when you get a cyber protectiont， the question is。

 does there exist a key。That。You know， with M 0 gives you this Cyphertex。

 So the key is kind of a witness。So this is kind of an NP problem。 The question is。

 is there this a key， given a sephertex， there's a key of course that that encrypts n 0 to this Cyphertex。

If P is equal to Np， this can be done in polynomial time。

So this attack that I showed you that I said took exponential time。

 That's because I don't know how to do it better。But maybe。Maybe tomorrow。

 someone will prove that p is equal to N and will show me how I can tell if this is an encryption B0 or M1 very efficiently。

If you can do it efficiently。Forget about it。 This definition is useless。So now if， if you ask me。

 oh， give me a construction， I'm not going to prove that P is different than N P in this class。So。

 so now you're like， okay， so what did I do， You know， I。

 I gave you a definition that at least it's not a。It's not completely broken， but to actually。

Come up with a construction。And prove that the construction satifies this definition。

 And way I will prove that he is different than N。So I I'm not going give you。 I。

 I still don't know if P is different than N。I hope it is as a cryptographer。

 Def if you're an algorithm person， maybe you hope it's equal。 But， but I'm a cryptographer。

 I really hope my， my entire career is less than the fact that they're not equal。E but。

 but I didn't prove it。 So， of course， I'm not gonna give you a scheme then and prove that it's secure。

So what do I do again， I'm， I'm in I another barrier。

 this entire course is going be full of barriers。 Okay， and really。

 what we'll need to do is overcome these barriers。 So what do I do。I want to give you a scheme。Okay。

 but I'll need to prove that it's secure， and I can't。Any ideas？ how do I overcome this？呀。超干嘛呀？

Exactly， you know， let's assume P is different than N。Well I say， okay。

 we all believe P is different than N。 At least I do。 Let's just believe it is。

 Or like if it is that Russia doesn't know it。So let's just assume it's not。

 You won't know the difference。We don't know which universe we're living in。

 Let's assume we're living in a universe where it's different。 And now can we now。

 let's try to do cryptography。It's exactly what we do。Now。

 we don't know how to build cryptography just based on the assumption that P is different than N P。

But we do know how to build cryptography based on a slightly stronger assumption。

And the assumption iss kind of the weakest assumption in kind of classical cryptography。

 And that's the， the definition of a one way function。 So let me define what a one way function is。

And the assumption is that one way functions exist。So let me say what a one way function is。So。

So pick a function from strings to strings。And we say， is。Feng is a。One way。Function。Is one way。If。

Okay， so what is the one way function， A one way function is a function。That is easy to compute。

 Okay， There's a polynomial time algorithm。That given as input generates an output。So。One is easy。

The compute。And by ease to compute， what I mean is there exists。A polyly time。Polynomial time。

Algorithm or Turing machine。 When I say algorithm， I mean Turing machine。A。Such to that。

For every London。And for every act。In 0，1 to the lambda。啊，A of x。Is equal to F of x。So basically。

 he runs in time poly Lada。 He gets an lambda bit string and he outputs。

 He computes that for every lambda。Okay， so this computing in the forward direction is very easy。

Pnomial time， is in polynomial time。However。Inverting it is really hard。So it is a compute by。

 but hard。To in。In what do I mean by hard to invert， What I mean is。For a。Polynomial time algorithm。

Even probabilistic polynomial time algorithm。Even polynomial size algorithm。Poly signs。Algorithm。

Now we're。We will compute in the forward direction。And ask him to invert this。

And he should not succeed。He should not be able to invert。Now， what do I mean， he cannot succeed。

 I mean， he can guess。So it may succeed with very small probability。

So I can't think he never succeeds。What can I see。That he succeeds only with。Next room probability。

Okay， which is kind of proxy to can't succeed。So for everypoliized algorithm， there exists。

A negligible function。Neegligible function mu。From N 10。Such to that。For every London。

The probability。Now， a is given X。Sorry， he's given Abaax。We're x。Is a length Lambda。

 So for any Lada， I'm going to choose a random。Input。Of length lambda。I'm going to give him F of X。

 So I'm gonna give him the image。And his goal。Is to find some pre image X prime。Such that。

F of x is equal to f of x prime。So， you know， maybe， maybe it's not one to one。

 So there may be many prims。He tries to find any pre image。And he will succeed with probability。

Nligible。Okay， so again， let me say this a little slower。

So the function is one way if it's easy to compute。

 So there's a polynomial time algorithm that computes it in the forward direction。

That's kind of the honest algorithm。 Okay， it's， it's not even randomized。 It's not， it's uniform。

 There's like a poly Turing machine that computes it。

But it's hard to invert when a averary cannot invert it。 Naly， what does it mean he cannot invert it。

不。😡，Poommial size。 Now， it can be randomized。 It can even be nonun， but polynomly bounded。

He can invert with that most neglig probability。 So for any polynomally bounded adversary。

 there exists unnegligible。Such that if I give him a random， if I choose for every lambda。

 if I choose an input of length lambda， but give him the f of that input。

His goal is to find a pre image。Of F of x。And he will succeed， only with。Neural probability。

 only with this probability mu of lambda。Okay， this is the definition of a one way function。

And what we will see is that we can， actually。啊哎，因此。

Construct schemes that achieve this definition of security。Where the key is of length Lada。

 but the message base can be any size。 Any poly Lada can be message of length Lada square。

 Lada to the third， Lada to the fifth。O， but we， for security。

 well need to assume to rely on the existence of one way function。

 So our scheme will use this one way function。Questions。So by the way。

 you also have a question about one way functions。 I encourage you to do that， too。 It's。

 it's gonna be， I think it's gonna help you kind of。Get intuition for what one way functions are。

 So both the the nextro one and the one way functions are kind of playing with these notations with these notions。

 I think it will be helpful。诶。Okay， great。Questions about this。O。

 so how are we going use one way functions， really to， to construct。

How what's kind of the basic idea so。Let me next kind of spend the last9 minutes of class to try to give you the idea the intuition behind how we。

 how we get security for these schemes。Okay， so。The basic idea。

 we want to use the one time pad really。 The one time pad is so beautiful and nice。

 but you need a large pad。oh， you know what， actually， before I I go here。

 I want to say one one more thing about this kind of the idea here。You know。

 we said that the adversary is bounded。 Yeah， I just want to point out。The honest。

Alrithm encryptption and decryption are also polynomial， also running polynomial time。 Yeah。

 so maybe I didn't emphasize this。 sorry。And。Poly time。Okay， so when we say the encryption scheme。

We want the encryption and decryption also to be polynomial time， of course， because otherwise。

 the honest people can't use it。And typically， in cryptography。

 we want the honest algorithms like encryption and decption。Not only to be polynomial time。

 we want them to be very efficient。Like linear or time squared。

 or they should be really efficient and simple。 They should be uniform。

 They should be as simple as possible。The aversary， he's also， he can't be like all powerful。

 He's now。 He can't run in time， you know， to do the lambda。 He needs to be polyial polynomial。

 but we long to， to， you know， to be nonun， for example， we he can be any， any polynomial time。

 So we consider we allow that we want security， even even though the honest algorithm runs in time。

 maybe let's say lambmbda squared。😊，We want security against adversary that also went in time。

 lambda to the 10th。So we always think of the adversary as more powerful than honests players。😊。

And that， of course， should be the case if we're willing to spend damage resources to just talk to each other。

 Of course， that adverary is going spend more time， more resources trying to break our scheme。

So always think of the honest algorithms that we all use should be very efficient。

 should be very simple to use。Theary， the algorithm could be more complicated。

 They can be non uniform。 They can be much less efficient， but not all powerful。Okay。

 because we can't achieve it in。 And they， they're not all powerful。 So we limit them in some way。

 Most often， we limit them to be polynomial sides。I just want to mention we also consider in crypttography。

 probably not in this class， but we also could consider security sometimes against more against superponomial adversaries。

Okay， thats and not because we think thatdversaries run in more time。But basically。

 it the reason we sometimes think of of super polynomial adversaries is because sometimes we really want to shrink the security parameter。

More than just， you know， we want to make it so short。 And then we say， okay， you know， yeah。

 if your secure camera is like 1，28 B， maybe you assume that you cannot run in time 2 to the 1，28。

But now， maybe you want to say， no， I want to be only 64 B。 and maybe you can run in time or。Sorry。

 if， O， it doesn't work with with polynomial。 but basically， if you want to take。

 if you want to shrink your security parameter， then sometimes you w to think of like even super polynomial time adversaries。

So sometimes we think of that， but this class will just think of polynomial size adversaries。Okay。

 great。 So now， now how do we construct it， Okay， so now let's go to the construction。

 And basically the， I'll tell you the high level idea and we'll dive into it next class。

 But the high level idea is， I want to be able。😊，To do the one time pad。

 look how simple and beautiful。But here。Ha could be long。Now， suppose for a second。

That I can do this kind of magic where I can take a short key。And kind a short random key。

And using cryptography， I'll expand it to a big random key。Now， that seems like ridiculous。 actually。

 Like you can't just generate random out of thin air like either you have random or you don't have randomness。

 So if you take a lambda bit key。And you stretch it into a lambda square。

have lambda square bits of entropy。 It still has0 bits of entropy。 So it's not gonna be random。

 You can't take lambda bits andministally make it Lambda square bits of randomness。Still。

 that's exactly what we're going to do。What we're going to do。Is we're going take short key。

Short random key。 We're gonna stretch it determine in the deterministic way into a long。

Kind of random key。 And then do a one time pad。That didn't make sense。 How， Okay。

 so I take a short lambda bit key。 It has lambda bits of randomness。And we can expand it。

Inter longkey。Let's say， lambda square bits。But it still has hundred bits of randomness。

 So it's not random。So how can I pretend that， Like， how can I use that as a one time pad。

So what we're gonna to do， we're gonna to say， yeah， it's not random。But， it looks random。

To a polynomial time algorithm， to apoliized algorithm， he thinks it's random。to be random。

But in his eyes， it's going be random。So kind of cryptographically or for polynoial time。 So， yeah。

 we can't really generate randomness out of thin air。But we can kind of like magicians， You know。

 they can actually cut a woman and then put her back together。But somehow in our eyes， they do that。

 It's exactly what we're going to do。Hey， we're going to take London bits。Of randomness。

 We're going to stretch it and underscore squared。To the audience or to the adversary， it will。

Thats quite bits of randomness。 So we did magic。But actually。

 it's still just lump bits of randomness。 They just can't tell that it's not random。

It looks completely random。So it's really magic。 That's why crypto is like magic。 Really。

 it's like you look at look， how can that be， Really， you feel like you're being like in a show。

 a magic show。😊，And the way we're gonna do it， how we， how we do that， basically。

We exchange hardness。😮，For randomness。So we， the fact that something is hard。

 like hard to invert here。We're gonna。 So， yeah， it's not going to look random。

It it's not going to be random。 but when your' eyes because you have some hardness， it's not random。

 exactly deteristic。 but you can't see it。 It's hard for you to see that it's deterministic。

 There's some hardness there。By our assumptions。So it will look to you like a trend。And now。

 once I manage to stretch。A small seed， a small secret。Into a large one， that looks random。

Then it's like， I have randomness。 So now I can just do the one time pad， and I'm done。So really。

 the only question is。How can I stretch randomness。

How can I take small randomness and get big randomness out of it。

And this is exactly what we're going to do next time。

 So this object is called a pseudo random generator， because that's exactly what it does。

 It generates not randomness， but what we call pseudo randomness。😊，Okay， so it's not really run。

It's pseudo random in the sense that it looks random。

And we're going to show how you can construct it。Use assuming a one way function。

We're not going to completely show it， but morally， we're going to show something very similar。

And then once you have that， then of course， then you can stretch your randomness and use the one time pad。

That's the basic idea。 So there's a lot of things I need to show you。 First。

 Do we have one way functions， even candidates。 I'm going assume new functions this。

 Where are I gonna to get a one way function。And how can I use that to。

To stretch and generate kind of long randomness of short randomness。 And actually， like the proof。

 how do I use that to actually get my scheme？ So we're gonna do all that in the next couple of lectures。

So we'll see you on Wednesday。