# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p27 6.5620 Lecture on 12⧸8⧸2025 (Mon).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p27-

There's this like。Their snarks for pe has like dual mode。Yeah。

 but there's no dorm mode here forget so I don't know if you can do。Like I guess iss the GIO generic。

That's true， but don't you that。Applic when it's yeah。嗯。Okay。Okay， so。Wow， you guys shrunk。

But actually this is just for fun So I feel like the material， the core material of the class。😊。

From my perspective， I thought I just wanted to end the last week， which with just some kind of。

To give you a sense of what the things we're working on today。 and in particular。

 I thought of focusing on two things。 One is quantum。

 and the other is machine learning and how they intersect with cryptography。

 So my goal is to excite you and maybe you'll want to join us and try to solve our problems。

 So let's so for today， I'm going talk about quantum。And before I actually say。What quantum is even。

I want to say kind of the work we do in quantum cryptography。 roughly speaking。

 you can kind of think of it as three different things。 According to Dode' terminology。

 The first one is called。Post1。And here in this world， think about the， this world。 Actually。

 this is the world we live in today。 We are now in post quantant。 What is this world。

 This is a world where we're all classical。 Our machines are classical。

 our scheme that we use are classical， but we are worried that we want security against quantum adversary。

😊，Okay， so here we just only the adversary。Is quantum？So namely it has a quantum computer。

But all the honest players， all the honest users are classical。Now， why am I saying this。

 we are in postqua today， I mean， you could say， wait， we don't have large scale quantum computers。

 We're not in post quant。The reason we are。In postpon is because when we exchange messages today。

We still want them to be secure maybe five years from now。😡，10 years from now。 And in 10 years。

We may， We very may well have a large scale quantum computer。Okay。

 so we are today in a world where quantum computer。

 large quantum computers seem kind of you know around the corner。

 and therefore we should today use schemes。That are secure against quantum adversaries。 And indeed。

 this is， there's Nist， which is the National Institute for Standards and Technology。

 And they already upgraded all corptography to be kind of post quantumum secure。

So this is kind of ready here。And I'm going to talk a lot about what's going on here。

 The second stage is what's called mini quantant。This is the next stage here。

 you can think there are a few large scale quantum computers， so exists。A few。Quantum computers。

But most of us don't have a quantum computer， but we can use quantum computers as like as a service。

 Okay， can be used。So here in this world， the questions we were going to ask is if there are a few quantum computers that we may not trust。

 but we want them to do computations for us because they're very powerful。

 how can we do it in a secure way？That's kind of what we're going to ask here。And then the last work。

 the last kind of phase we're going to talk about is。Quantaman。This is still a bit futuristic。

 but very interesting。So here。We all have quantum computers， We have quantum watches。

 We exchange qubits， All the communication is quantum。 Everything is quantum。😊，Okay。

 so here we can do amazing things。 Okay， so here all devices。😊，二矿怎。So， yeah， the adversaries are。

 too， but also Al Gist's parties are quantum。 And now a lot of things can be done in a world where。

Today， we cannot even hope。To do。So， my goal for today。

Is to tell you a little bit about the work that we're doing in each and every one of these。

Of these stages。啊，呀。We can do it that。Good， great question。 I'm gonna get into that。

 It's not at all after it's exactly on topic。 The question is。

 let me phrase your question a little differently is， you know。

 we've done decades of great research and cryptography。 Do we need to throw it all out， or can we。😊。

Kind of rely on it in the postponum setting。 Do we need to do off Kpto from scratch。

 or was that not those messages that we encrypted before postpon。 Oh encrypted Yeah， oh yeah。It。

 there's nothing you can do because， yeah， sorry。 if you send messages encrypted using RA or any kind of。

 you know， based on factoring or defment or anything。

 once quantum large has quantum computers are available。 if someone stored these messages。

 they'll be able to decode dec everything， yeah。So if you're worried。

 don't use classical cryptography。诶。Great。Okay， any questions before I dive into to this topic to these kind of three phases。

 And I w， I want to actually say that both Andrew and A Parney have done amazing work on these phases。

 Maybe I I'll mention some。😊，Okay， so let's start with the first with post quant。

This is very interesting。When cryptographers started thinking about the possibility of having quantum adversaries out there。

The thing we focused on is that， oh， oh no， there's Shore's algorithm。

 Peter Sho was a faculty in the mes department that shows that you can factor and do discrete log using a large scale quantum computer。

 you can do that efficiently， and therefore all the classical schemes from the 7080s are broken。Okay。

 so we， the focus was， of course， we need to design。System， cryptography。Or crypto primitives。

 whether it's。Whether it's a secure encryption， secure signature， scheme， secure math。

 secure multipartity computation， secure proofs， succinncct arguments， whatever it is。

 you want to do it under。What's called post quantum secure assumption？Okay， so， of course。

 if you can break assumptions， there's nothing。 I mean， okay， then something is broken。

 What we want is cryptography that relies on assumption that we believe cannot be broken using a quantum computer。

And kind of one of our flagship assumptions is learning with air。 So L WE is an example。Okay， we。

 we currently do not know how to break the learning with air assumption。

 even with a quantum computer。Now， you know， for a while， we thought。

 and that may be our intuition as well for those who haven't thought about this。

Once' you have this were done？All you need is cryptography。 that is secure Android assumption。

 So if you had， you know if。We had already schemes that were proven secure until LWE were done。

 Then you know， LW is post onsecure。 So we're good。呀。say I W。Sa of。对。啊哈。Great question。 So O。

 so let me make you understand your question。 Your question is the following。

If I have one way function， and I prove that this function cannot be inverted。

 assuming the hardness of L W E。 And now we believe that LW is post quantumme secure。

 does it immediately imply that the one way function cannot be inverted。Using a quantum computer。

 because that's what you're asking。 Okay， so generally。The answer is no。 Okay。

 so let me say what to know。 Let me let me explain。If you have a proof， suppose you have a proof。

Suppose there exists a kind of classical proof。That says that， that says that a given。Primitive。

Is secure。Let's say， under L。Any kind of assumption we believe is post one secure。Now。

 your question is， does this imply？😮，That there exists a proof。

That the primitive is post quantum secure。Under。Poponum algorithm。That's kind of the question。

The answer is surprisingly， no， it does not mean that。😡，That that's really interesting。 So again。

 the point is。The proof， if you look at our proof， okay， when we argue that a primitive is secure。

Are proofs somehow， when you try， even if the assumption is postponum， when you look at the proof。

 the proofs sometimes may no longer。 Some of them do。 Some proofs extend。But generically。

 it's not true。 There are put I'll mention examples that are secure。

 the the proof work in the classical setting。But in the quantum setting， they make no sense。And I。

 I didn't tell you what quantum is。 So， but I'm going to show you this。So first， we need assumptions。

 But even if you have assumption， my point is what you need。Is you need a post？

Quantum proof of security。Whatever that means。So， of course。

 you need to assume the assumption is both quantum secure， but you also need the proof itself。

To makes sense in the quantum setting。And I'll explain what I mean here。But moreover。

 let me tell even what's even more mind boggling。You need the definitions。To be。

To make sense in the quantum world。And I'll explain what I mean。 So even some of the definitions。

Make no sense， yeah。你 stands。Onton computationally。You， of course， of course， like we had definitely。

 So， you know， for when we set two distributions。Are indistinguishable。

 meaning polynomial size distinguishers cannot distinguish。 Yes， so when we talk about quantum。

 everything becomes against。Quantum polynomial time。 we consider。

 if we before we consider polynomial time adversaries。

 now we consider quantum polynomial time adversaries。

 And we have a definition of quantum polynomial time indistinguishability， exactly the same， indeed。

😊，But， yeah。Just。Or the stop。You can port them， but not all。 And I'll give you。

 I'll show you actually concrete examples of things that completely break down。

But in order to explain to you what breaks down， let me tell you a little bit。

 I'm going give you like  five minutes intro about quantum computation。 Okay。

 soll youll be able to appreciate what's， what， what the issues are。Okay， so。Quronrum Comp， 101。

Okayk， so what is quantum computation。 So in a classical computation。

 we work the kind of basic unit a bit。 We work with bits。 Computers have bits。

 Each one has a 0 or  one。😊，Quantum computers have what's called a qubit。

A qubit is also a mathematical thing。 And it's the form each qubit。😊，Takes it doesn't。

 It's not just0 or one， but it's a superposition between 0 and1。 The way we deote it。

 it's some alpha times the qubit 0， which has this cat notation。 That's the notation use plus beta。1。

 thequbit 1。Where alpha and beta are complex numbers such that the absolute value of alpha squares plus beta squared。

Is equal one。Okay， so now every instead of having a bit， which is either 01。😡。

Every bit is a superposition between 0 and  one。Were the coefficients？Our complex number。

That sum up their absolute value， sum up to one。Okay， and more， moreover。

 and this is kind of the real interesting thing。 If you have many qubits。 So let's say N qubits。

Together， which is called kind of a quantum state。 Okay。

 so it has state has more than1 qubits in general。It can be a superposition of any kind of N bits be one of to be N。

With some coefficients Al。 So maybe I'll denote it by。X。In01 to the n。Alpha x。X。

 so this is kind of nqubits， x1 of the X N。It's a superposition between， kind of。

And basic kind of qubits， X1 of x， n， such that。Again。

 each i is a complex number and the sum of all the coefficients， the absolute value squared is one。

And the important thing I want to say about a this is what's called a quantum state。Also。

 one cube is a quantum state， but it's kind of just a single。

 But this is what a general quantum state looks like。 What's interesting about a quantum state。

Is that if you look at an nqubit quantum state， which is here， there's only nqubits。 X has basically。

 it's x one of the x N。It has only the Nqubits。But encoded in it is， in some sense， to the N。

Complex numbers。Okay，Where if you look at nbits。You have N numbers， know， B1。

 B2 B3 F the BN or X1 of T N。 That's it。Here we have superposition of all possible。X 1 of the Xn。

And the number of possible test is2 of them。So in some。

 there's exponential amount of kind of information。In this incubid state。Now。

 we can't extract this to them bits of information。

But the fact that there is so much information is in a quantum state。Is kind of what makes。

Quantum computation， very powerful。So so far I just mentioned， you know。

 this is what a qubit looks like， this is what nqubit，'s a quantum state looks like。

How do you manipulate quantum states， You know， when we have bits。

 we can manipulate by doing an and and or not right， These。

 These are kind of a basic that's complete。 So we can do all of all of computer。

 we can build just with and and not。 That's an operation with one cube and bits。

What are the operation and and qubits。The operation and qubit is。Maybe I'll continue here。

The operation on qubit we a manipulated qubits or quantum states via unitary transformations。

 So the computation。Is done via unitary。So basically， you take。Quantum state。

 you can think of this as a vector alphapha beta。And you apply any unitary matrix to it。

 So a two by two matrix。 and you get a new quantum state。

 A unitary matrix for those who don't remember。 The only important thing is that it still preserves when you apply unitary matrix to a qubit。

 You get a new。Vectctor that still has the some， the absolute value of the coefficient。

 sum up to one。Okay， so it preserves the length。Okay， but that that's not really important。O。

 the unitary， not unitary。 That's not today won't come up。 But I'll tell you what is very important。

What is very important。 And that's what makes kind of post one。Challenging。Is that。Oh。

Cubbit have the weird property or quantum states have the weird property that when you observe them。

 they collapse。Okay， so， so if you have a quantum state。I for Xx。Will you observe？

I know it sounds weird。 This is Angel's science fiction。 If you look at it，Vanishes what that that。

 It cannot。 It becomes just X。So no more all the superposition goes away。So which X？

I have your superpositionion over all possiblees。If I look at it， if I observe it。

 which x again get 0，0，0，0， again 1，1，1，1。 Which ones am I going to get。And I'm going to get。

With probability。Alpha x squared。And that's why it's important that the sum of assets square is one。

So each x， the probability that I preserve that x。Depends on its's coefficient。Okay。

 it the absolute value squared。O， the fact that quantum。

 So here's what makes Postpon really challenging。Is this collapse？So when you observe it。

 it collapses。And the other thing， this together with that what's called a no cloning principle。

Which basically says。😮，That if youre given a quantum state， you can't copy it。Now， this is very。

 very different from from classical。 If you have classical bits， you can always copy them。

Like it's trivial。 If I give you a book， you can copy the book。If I give you a quantum state。

If I tell you how to generate a quantum state， you can generate it， of course。 So if I tell you， oh。

 you want the quantum state， I don't know。0 plus。1， I can tell you how to generate this。

 You take just a vector， only 0。 You apply how to mark to it。 Some unitary matrix。Fine。

 but if I tell， if I give you a state。I didn't tell you how to generate the state。

 I just gave you a state， just an arbitrary state。You can't clone it。

 You can't generate two states like that because you can't look and see what's in there。

 You can't read all the coefficients。If you observe it， the state disappears。Okay， this is really。

 it's mind doggling。 I don't know when I first learned about it。 I was like， wait。You know。

 I looking for the candid cameras。 I don't know。 It seems like not real。

But that's the model we're we're working with。Okay， so now with this model in mind。😮。

I want to tell you， what's the problem。 I'll give you one example。 There are many issues。

 but one example of why transporting proofs in the classical setting to the post quoum setting becomes a problem sometimes。

Okay。But this is basically all I want to talk about quantum。 I'm not gonna actually go into depth。

 talk about quantum algorithms and so on。 Why is this so like such a powerful model and so on。

 I'm not going talk about any of that。 I just want to show you kind of what， what is the problem of。

Kind of upgrading cryptography to handle such aver such computations。Okay， so here's an example。

Suppose we have like， for example， secure multiparty computation or even an interactive proof。Okay。

 so suppose I， I prove to you that， you know， even in suppose I have a prover and a verifier。

 let's say the prover proves that X。He wants to prove that X is in the language。

 We talked about attractive proofs or in argumentss。

So suppose the prove wants to prove that X is in language， and they have like an interactive proof。

 I don't know。 He said something， the ver， something。 he said something。

 and then the ver is convinced。And now， let's say we have a proof of soundness。 Okay， so we。

 we've seen in proof。 we proved soundness， we proved zero knowledge， We proof stuff。😊。

So now suppose we have a zero knowledge， interactive protocol or not zero knowledge。

 and we have a classical proof that it sound。And Rwe， let's say LW is post one secure。

 So why can't we use。Let's try to upgrade the proof and make sure it sounds also in the post quantumum setting。

Now， let's think about how the proof works。 So how did the R proof work， It said。

 So here is kind of the classical proof。It said something like this。AnyP star。

 like a cheating prover。And we're going to use this cheating prover so that fit piece are the cheats。

😮，Like， you know。Cheets meaning， let's say， successfully convinces the ver of a false claim。

And we're going to use this P star to break the assumption。Something of that form。

How do we use PSt to break the assumption？So the way we actually prove it， if you think like。

 of three coloring， for example， remember， there was a commitment here of the coloring。

And then you've got an edge。And then there was an opening， okay。

Now suppose the graph is not threecolorable。😡，But the proveover proves it's to be colorable。

Now we're going say， oh， we're gonna either so how we're gonna say， oh， in that case。

 we break the commitment。How do we break the commitment， We say， let's look at this P star。

There's the graph。 So let's our x is a graph。That's supposedly three colorable。

 It should be three colorable， but it's actually not。 Okay， but he's proving it is， but it's not。

And now we're saying， okay， we're going to break the commitment。

 How are we going to break the commitment？The cheating prover。He sent some color， some commitments。

So he's going to send some commitments。Let me leave it blank。 I don't know what he said。

 Some commitments。Now the idea was we say， okay。😊，We're going to give him an edge。And look。

 let's open the commitment。Let's see what he got。And。Now the idea is if we say， youYou know what？

Said Paul， okay， so let's say he gave us in we opened。 He， we ask him to open。

 and he gives us like color， I and color G。Now I could say， okay， you know what， forget I asked this。

Suppose I asked I another edge。 I prime J prime。 Let's see what he gave it。 Supp I gave another edge。

 look， underneath here， there can't be a valid coloring。 So somewhere。You know。

 there's inconsistency， and then I won't like I would reject him or。

 or he will be able to open in two different ways， something like that。The point is。

 the way the argument works。Is that we rewind the cheating prover。 We said， okay。

 fix the cheating prover。Okay， he sends a thing。Let's send him I J。 Let's see what he got。

 Let's send him something else。 Let's see what he got。 Let's， and eventually。

 we'll see that either he， you know， either therere somewhere where， the edge won't work。

 in which case， he doesn't succeed with high enough probability。Or he broke the commandant。Now。

 how does this work in the quantum setting。 So let's say we have a cheating prover。

 The cheating prover may have some quantum state。 So usually quantum state。 Okay。

 so we have some quantum state。Which helps him cheat。 I know he got a quantum state。

 And that quantum state is what he uses to cheat， okay。He generates this commitment。

After they generous to this commitment， the quantum thing may change。

So he started with him quantum state。 He did some things。 He observed some things。

The point is once he operates on this state， the state changes。So after this。

 he has it once he's here。😮，After he sent this， he has a different state。B tax X。

Now after he sent this。😮，His state is very different。No。

I need to go back to this state to send him another I J。 But he's like， I'm sorry， I lost my state。

 Maybe after he sent Igeian State Bi Bo disappeared。And I was like， oh， here's another。 I like。

 sorry， I used my state。 no more state。I can only do it once。So the issue is in a classical setting。

 you can rewind the proveer， you can run the poer as many times as you want。

 because you can copy if he has like some auxiliary information， X。

 a auxiliary input that he uses to cheat。T me that of Z information。In the quantum setting。

An adversary may have some auxiliary quantum state that he uses to cheat。And after you try once。

That information disappears。 You can no longer cheat。对呀。It been came just worry。Well， okay。

 first of all。Okay， first of all， for， okay， two things。 First of all， for that。

 you need to have many copies of youruxi。Maybe you don't have many copies。

But it's even worse than that。Even if you can。Let's say I've given you many copies of the original。😡。

Information。He sends the first message。😮，His state changes。And you need to。Come back to this state。

Because you want to keep the same commitment and rewind the second message。

And copying this usually means you break the crypto。😡，Like many for many protocols， not all。

 but some。Copying this implies kind of breaking the commitment。

Because this already depends on the commitment。But the point。Kind of to make， to， to。To say， is that。

Rewinding all the tools that that other are protocols that involve rewinding the prover and running him the adversary and running him again。

Completely failed the quantum setting。So now what do we do。

 All Our interactive protocols involve rewinding。 That's kind of a really important tool that we use all the time。

So what do we do。So we， we do have techniques to do deal with it。 There was one very。

 very beautiful technique of Kis。😊，Spooner and Xandry。That kind of said， okay， I， I can't go back。

 I can't rewind because otherwise， I can kind of clone the state。 There's no， actually。

In the quantum setting， there are cases where you probablyably cannot rewind。

Because if you can rewind， it means you can kind of clone， copy this state twice。

 And so you cannot rewind。😡，But there are techniques that say， well， you can't really rewind。

 but you can kind of get a new state that's as good。 It's called We can repair。 You cannot rewind。

 but you can repair whatever that means。Repair means that。The new cheating pool will still kind of。

So you can repair to a new state that will still kind of be accepted with some probability as before。

But it's not going to be the same state。And the fact that it's not the same state also makes our proof。

Go out the window because in our proofs sometimes or often。

 we really need assume that the state kind of doesn't remember anything from the history。

 doesn't behave。 And when you repair， you may repair， depending on the history it's like a。

It it doesn't。 kind of it's a big problem。 And actually。

 Andrew has work that kind of does this in a memory， kind of doing it in a way that you lose。

Kind of more close to rewinding， but it's still not rewinding， it just gives you more applications。😡。

But still， we're in a setting where we don't have， you know。

 fullover rewinding is impossible and kind of upgrading all our protocols。

All ourwinding proofs to the post quantum setting is still a major open question。

So that's about the truth。 So， again， the point I want to make is。Yeah。

If you have a cryptographic primitive， and this is especially true in the interactive setting。

If you have a cryptographic primitive that is proven secure in the classical setting。

Under a post quantum secure assumption， it does not imply。The the primitive is postponum secure。

The proof needs to not kind of involve cloning the proveverse state， basically。

So there should be no rewinding or anything like that。And even in the。

 in the non interactive setting， even for encryption。Or signatures that are non interactive。

Their things are not entirely obvious， because。Because there。Often。To to break security。

 you will need to assume that you have access。 So basically， okay， all our our。

 our security proofs are by reduction， right， We say， if I have an adversary。

 I can use them to break my assumption。My Del W or whatever。

The way we're working the in the quantum setting is。If unless you do something clever。

Is if I have an adversary that breaks the scheme with some quantum state。I can use him。

To break my assumption。But with a different quantum state。

 maybe a quantum state that clones his quantum state many times， but we can't clone。 So， yeah。

 you know， we lose our win win kind of the nice thing about cryptographic reduction is this win win flavor。

 We say either our schemes are secure in which case you can be happy。

Or if God forbid someone breaks our scheme。 Wow， we got a new algorithm。 That's amazing。

 We have this new algorithm that we can use。 Okay， so we have this win win。

 either science wins or security wins， okay。😊，In the quantum setting。

 we don't really have that anymore because。We say， okay， either， if the skin is broken。😡。

You can't really use thedversary to break your assumption。

 You need a new state that you can't generate。To break the assumption。

 So you don't have to have an algorithm。So kind of。So， again。

 there's been work kind of trying to resolve this issue。 Okay， and keep this win win。

 So all this is kind of work in progress。 There's a lot of work that I'm， you know。

 I would love to tell you about。 But that's kind of some of the things that we， as a community。

 are working on。Last thing I want to tell you in the post quant setting is the definitions。So。

 I said。Even definitions。We need to change。 let on assumption， let alone security proofs。

 the definition themselves。And let me give you one example。

One example is that of a commitment scheme？So if you remember a commitment scheme。

 we wanted it to be one of the properties is that it's binding。Okay， how did we define binding？

 We said a commitment scheme is binding。 Let's say you commit to bit。 Okay。

 for that you cannot open to both 0 and to one。 or after you send the commitment。You can not。

 You cannot open in two different ways。That's the definition of binding。ok。

So you can't open both this and this。😡，In the quantum setting。This definition does not make sense。

 why。Because what can happen in the quantum setting is that， yes， you cannot open to both。

So you can proably show that there's no adversary that can open both to zero and one。But。

This does not imply。Then an adversary can output to either0 or one。Now， this is weird。

 So let me try to say this。Aim。Again， so we'll talk about definitions here。

So let's think of binding of commitment scheme。And the definition of binding。So， the definition says。

😊，That for any adversary or bounded adversary， depending on the， let's say， bounded。

 polyly bounded whether。Bounded adversary A。The probability。That a。

 maybe the commitment has a public parameters， maybe not。 Okay。

 the probability that he gets the public parameters。And he generates a commitment C。And open。

 and let's say too open， like2 bit。 let's say， okay， so open。To zero and open。The one that are valid。

Thisす。Happened with negligible probability。So once you commit。You cannot open in two different ways。

That's the definition of binding。What can happen in the quantum setting。the adversary is quantum。

 not the a has a quantum state。You may be able to prove。😮，But he cannot open to both 0 and 1。

This does not mean。Thataddverary。Maybe the adversary。Who has some quantum state。

Some we do not die outside the quantum state。 Maybe if he has a quantum state。

And he's given public parameters。Any for。So he can generate。C。

 and now he get a new state after that because his state changes。 So this is the commitment。

 He may be able to generate a commitment。And now we has another state， like。

This state after he commits。And maybe with this state。If you give him any big B。

He can generate an opening。😮，这别。But he cannot generate both 0 and open to 0 and1。

You can only generate one。So it terises this definition。Ca he cannot open two ways。

But it really doesn't satisfy the binding， binding。

 the idea of binding that after he commits he's stuck。

That's really when we said binding what we meant。Is that once you commit， you're stuck。

You're kind of bind you're bind it。 You can't then open to whatever you want。In the quantum setting。

It may be the case that you cannot open to both， but still you can open to one whichever you want。😡。

In the classical setting， this makes no sense。But in the quantum setting。

 it makes sense because when you once you open to one， your state。Is destroyed。

So you may not be open to So you may be able to prove that you cannot open to both， but still。

You can open to whatever you want。 And this is not an eote。 This is actually。

This is actually a thing。 And we actually， in some of the quantum protocols。

 this is used as a feature。Like it's a bug in the definition。

We use this fact as a feature for quantum protocols。So this is not like a。It may happen but no。

 this is a big like。This is a serious issue。Okay， it's not， it's not made up。And therefore， indeed。

 in quantum cryptography， we change the definition。Of of a commitment。

 we have what's called collapse binding。 And basically， that means that you're kind of stuck。

It kind of means that after that this state after you commit。

You cannot distinguish between the case that it was kind of like collapsed to one of the opening or not。

 And if it was collapsed on the opening， then you， you can only open one way。

 You can open either way。So the point is， yeah， we fix this definition。

 But this is just to say that even the definitions themselves。

May need to be adjusted in the quantum setting because of this。Fact。That quantum quantum a states。

MCan be cloneed。If you could have cloneed。A quantum state。Then if you can open to either one。

 you can open to both， just own the state。 you have a state， copy it。

 and then open to one open to the other。😡，But because quantum state cannot be cloned。This definition。

Does not imply。 So again， in the classical setting， this definition implies。😡，That once you commit。

 there's no way you can output。 can， you can open to either 0 or1。

 You can there's only one you can open to。But in the quantum setting， this does not mean that。

The fact that you can open， you cannot open it to both。😡。

Doesn't mean that you cannot open to one of your choice。😡，So things that just kind of immediately。

 there's an implication， in the classical setting， this implication no longer holds。

In the quantum setting， because of the no cloning principle。

So this collapse of a state in the no cloning principle。😮。

Makes kind of a lot of our intuition in the classical setting kind of go out the window。

And with that， some of the way we define things which are with a classical kind of mindset。

Do not anymore make sense in the quantum setting。So。Basically， I I。

Kind of the situation I portrayed is much worse than it actually is。

 I kind of portrayed a world where， you know， there was all this cryptography that we built。

 Forge about it。 not not to mention that all many of our assumptions fail。

 Also the ones that do hold like LW。 they also don't work。

 The definitions don't make sense and the proofs don't make sense。

 like trash cryptography start from scratch。Thankfully， it's not really the case。😊。

There are general kind of theorems that uplift cryptography。

 classical cryptgraphies of the quantum setting， but theyre not。

 we're not in a place where we can lift everything。Okay， we do have some。

 I mentioned Andrew's result as one example， and there are many， many others。

 but this is kind of work in progress。 And it would be nice if we can get to a place where we can kind of say。

 okay， now there's kind of generic ways to uplift kind of cryptography that secure against post quantumum secure assumptions to the quantum setting period。

😊，O， we're not there yet， but we， we did make significant progress。Okay， questions。Okay。Okay。

 so this is postqu。By the way， I unless you guys object。

 I'm tempted not to take a break and then end5 minutes early。

 because I have a committee that I would like to not be too late to。哎。呀。

assumption do we have anything post。 Yeah， So Yeah， yeah， yeah。 So， So actually。

 everything I showed in class。We do have a postpon。 We do have。 We can build them under elderlyably。

So indeed， in class， we saw a lot of things based on diy Heman。 but a lot of the things we've seen。

 like we have encryption schemes under LW。 Well， we we saw fully homomorphic encryption and WE。

 So we do have encryption under LWE。 we have a CCA secure encryption and LW。

 We have signature schemes underWE。 I didn't show them， but we we have so。😊。

We now know all the kind of basic cryptographic primitives。We do know how to construct and and L W。

 Not only we know how to construct， it's already standardized。So people like。

 started using them these things。We yout know how to。I'm sorry， so that。す。

assumption is we don't know we dont we don't know like it's not just we don't know The dipyman assumption is no matter which group you use。

 it's known to like Sha's attack is pretty broad and it it can break the dipyman like discrete log for any group。

So it's kind of doomed di hum， this discrete log assumption is doomed， not just over。Zy。对。

Do you have a question？Is there like other posts。Yeah， yeah， yeah。 Okay， That's a great。

 great question。 So the question is， are there any other assumptions except for RWE。

 And this is a very good question， because we never want to。😊，You know， build an entire。

Kind of field under one assumption that may be broken。 And normal， let me tell you a story about。

A year ago， when was the paper andE。Okay， see the library It was traumatizing。

 We were all traumatized。 up came a paper by Eli Chin who said who the the title of a paper。

 If I'm not a butchering it is like L the LW E is broken， is post quantum broken。Okay。

So you look at the paper。I'm telling you we spent weeks。 Okay， like， I think we don spend like。

 you know，24，7 on trying to understand， like， is it really broken。 And the paper had really。

 really good ideas。 It wasn't by any mean a junk paper。 Okay， it was a really good paper。

And the community， like， freaked out。 Okay， really freaked out。 Eventually， a bug was found。It does。

That tomorrow he won't be able to publish an entire break， I don't know。

The people did have good ideas， and I think it shook us all up， okay。So， today， we are。We， you know。

 we're still hoping that do be secure。 but a lot of the work that we do and the partner has great work on it is on' trying to kind of build cryptography based on other assumptions。

 like group action。 That's another type of assumption。

 which I didn't even cover and there are other assumptions for like mini crypt like oneway functions。

 because is that you can base on like， you know，And like completely different types of assumptions。

 So not like a lattice base or algebraic or number theory type assumptions。 But。

 but this is indeed a very important open problem， a very important problem that we're working on。

 We do have other assumptions than L V， but this is definitely something that's very important We don't have a lot。

 Let me put it this way。Ok， any other questions about。Okay， so then let me move on to miniqu。

If you don't have any other， any further questions。So。

So mini quant is really interesting in this world。Here's what you should think about。

Think of a setting where we have a quantum computer。 We can use it as a service。 Okay。

 so we have a quantum computer。 We can use it。 We can ask him to do quantum computations for us。

 And let's say we pay， you know， the service to give us the answers。Okay， and we're all classical。

What are the issues， Well， like usual， when we talk about class， Well。

 we want confidentiality when we give the quantum the service， our inputs。

 there may be inputs that are are private to us or sometimes by law， they're private， Okay。

 maybe a hospital wants to do some quantum computation and and patient data。

 They can't just send the patient data。 that's just illegal。

 So sometimes we just care about the privacy。Sometimes it's by law that we need to ensure privacy。

 And so now the question is， how。To outsource。Quantum computation。Securely。And here。

 theres two things when we talk about secure securely outsourcing quantum computation。

 So when I say securely outsourcing quantum computation， I mean， suppose I have a quantum computer。

Here。And I have a classical user here。He's classical。Now， the user wants to kind of。F的 the。

Service here。 he's like， okay， here's a function that I want you to compute， But the computer。

 you need to。Quantum power， because it's， it's impossible too classically。 It'll take it too long。

 And here's my input。 and please compute for me。And this guy， does the computation。

 gives back F of x。Now， what do we care about， So first thing is we want confidentiality。

So maybe this computer should not know what X is。Does this ring a bell？ What What should we do。

Exactly， we want to go off for encryption。But we need now homomorphic encryption。

That can handle quantum computation。Not just plastic。

 we showed them over conclusion when you can add and multiply mod2。

Here we need homo encrypt that you can kind of do kind of these unitary transformations and qubits。

Okay， so this is what's called quantum。Its even more a encryption。And we had that。 actually。

 there was a breakthrough work by by Umaadiv。 I this is actually a great story。

 She was a student at the time with hardly any papers in Berkeley。

 and the same year she came with like these two magnificentnicent kind of huge results for which both she got best paper awards。

😊，The first one is quantum FHG。 So she showed how to do quantum F HG and theE。Okay。

 so hers is And WE。There was later improvements。 and then。

 and then a partner would did not have also under group actions。Pfi。But the point is。

 you want different assumptions。 Okay， that's kind of forget about what I owe。 in this ofscation。

 don't want to talk about it。 But basically kind of trying to exactly the question asked， which is。

 can we。Kind of。Broade in our our set of assumptions。Okay， so that's one。

 So you once you point to my Fiji， great。 now I can encrypt。My X。And then， I get back。F of x。

 and if x is classical and the output is classical， I， as a classical user。

 I can do everything classically。Okay， and he just does all the homomorphic computation。

 quantum computation under the hood。Pretty remarkable that we can do that。Okay， what about integrity。

So this is confidentiality。How do we know？😮，That this quantum computer， compute what it should have。

So maybe I pay my 100 to do quantum computation 8000 0。I mean。

 he has the incentive not to do the computation。 It's expensive for him， too。 You know。

 running these these quantum computers is not cheap。So I'll just say 0。

 How do I know that he actually ran the computation。So I want， you know， we talked about proofs。

 I want proof of security。Exactly， it's it's even more than that。 It's8 requires right。

 It's not what we did in class if you， if you remember， we said， okay， we have additionalplication。

 and therefore we can do some check。This is speaking a different language。

 of unitary matrices of things in superposition， not even clear what to do here， yeah。

That's exactly the question。 exactly。 So this is the question。 Let me just repeat。

Can we classically verify correctness of quantum computation。Now， this is， I have to say。

 this is one of the most fascinating。Questions， in my opinion。 Now， here's the thing。

 Let's say the quantum computation。Had like the circuit， the quantum circuit。

 I didn't define really what a quantum circuit is。 but anyway。

 there's a way to define a quantum circuit with with where each gate is like a small unitary。Matrix。

 whatever。Let's say the number of gates， these unitary gates is whatever S， you know。

 circuit of size S。Can a classical verifier verify the correct verify the correctness of a quantum circuit of size S where the verifier runs in time S。

 He can run in time S。 when Luke talk about verification。 we said， oh， there is a huge computation。

 we want to verify in short amount of time。😊，You know， we're both classical。 The proof is classical。

 verify is classical。 The only difference of the time。Here I'm saying。

 let's say I'm okay with the verify running in time like the number of gates in the circuit even more。

He can run。Plyus， but he's classical。😡，So now I'm exchanging that time。

 I'm exchanging quantum versus classical。And the question is， can we do that。Now， this is。

 I love this question。 I think it's super interesting。😊。

And the reason I find it so fascinating is because we know。That the class of all polynomial time。

 all the things that can be computed in polynomial time。 that's called B Q P。

So everything that can be computed in quantum。Polynomial time。Is known to be contained in piece。Okay。

 so if you have a problem。Which you can solve with the quantum computer in polynomial time。

You can solve with a classical computer in piece space。 It'll take much more time。 It won't be。

Poly time will be exponential time。 There can be solves in peace space。Now， peace space， we know。

Is contained in I P。 It's equal to I P。 actually， let's it be precise。So。

We have an interactive proof for BQP。For any。So to answer your question， yeah。

 the vampire here is classical。 Everything's classical。But this is not a good answer because， yes。

 we have an interactive proof where we have a prover and a verifier for B Q P。 but the prover。

To do this interactive proof。The proveer is actually classical。

 He converts this B Q piece in exponential time computation。😊。

So in order to prove a quantum computation using interactive proof， we know how to do it。😮。

With a huge overhead in the runtime of the prove actually't he doesn't even use this quantum mobility。

 we just convert the poly quantumum circuit into an exponential classical circuit。

 and then we do the computation。The question is， can we do this without blow up the runtime of the proveover。

 Can we do BQP where the prover runs in。Quantum。Ply time。

And the verifier runs in classical poly time。😊，Okay， this is an open problem。

And I have to say this is an open problem。It's a super important problem。

 I don't understand why we didn't succeed yet。 It shouldn't be too hard。 Like。

 I don't believe that this problem is impossible。I don't think it's so above reach。 I feel like。What。

😮，in another。Okay。And did they succeed in oracal separation exactly， So it may be true。Okay。This is。

 this is one。 But let me tell you what we do know。 Actually。

 we do know how to verify quantum quantum We do know how to classically verify quantum computations in two different models。

One mile that we know how to do it。Is if the if we if， we only require computational sound。

And we talked about that in the classical setting as well， in other words。If we only require。

Soundless to hold。 So maybe so we can have a prover be quantum polynomial time。

But then the guarantee is only if he runs in quantum Pomo， if he runs in quantum Po will time。

 he cannot cheat。But if you run an exponential time， you can cheat。So assuming your server。

 you believe your server is not like all powerful， you know， God。

And assuming he really runs in quantum polynomial time， then you trust can achieve it。Now。

 it's reasonable to assume that， right， you know， maybe the only way to do it。Like。

 the only way to cheat is to run in time。 I don't know，2 to the 500。

 which is more than the number of molecule in the universe。

 So we believe that people came from in that time。But。Just as a result。

 we do know how to do it where the prover is computationally computational sounds。This。

 we do know how to do。Another way we know how to do it。 And by the way， the way we。

 we do this is kind of interesting。What the way this is done is again。

 this is a protocol due to Mahaib。 So Ormihib， she came up with two things。

 It's the quantum refugeci and the classical verification of quantum computation in the in the computational soundist regime。

 So argument。And basically， the idea is really， it's very nice。

 What she does is some form of a kind of a commit and proof。 So what she does。😊。

She takes the computation。So let's say she wants to put some computation is correct。

 The output is 0 for some quantum computation。She encodes this computation。In a way。

 she encode this computation in some way， she commits。Classically， to quantumum。

State somehow she managed to do this quantum almost commit。 But let me just say commit。

s close enough。She kind of can classically commit to this quantum state。And then later。

 she kind of can open it。 She can the verifier can ask to open it and kind of you give the ver some classical opening that convinces him that the quantum state committed indeed corresponds to the correct computation。

 So is there some kind of a committed proof。Element to it。 And since then。

 there's been a lot of work kind of improving it and， and so on。So that's one，1 way。

 another way we know how to do it。 And this is a result from， wow， I forgot。

9 is the when was the result of the MIP。A for， for Q me。That might piece star。 Yeah， yeah。Theni。

I have here two quantum experts so。2013， that sounds right。 So this is a result。 So these two。

 this is from like。2018， I believe the classical verification。 But before that， I think from 2013。

That sounds right。There's been a result showing the following。

 You can forget about about it's not an argument。 No crypto。 It wasn't about。

 It wasn't done by photographers， No crypto in it。 But what they showed is。If you had two proves。

That do not interact。Then they can prove。To a verifier。

Any kind of the correctness of quantum computation， basically。Okay， so if you had two proves。

That do not interact。 You can prove the correctness of a quantum computation。Okay， but this is。

 this kind of assumes that you have two provers。That， that don't interact。

They may need to share some states that had some， what's called entanglement。

 But the idea is that if you have two that do not cannot communicate。

Then you can classically prove quantum of computation。

And I just want to mention this idea of using two proves was also done in the classical setting。

It was used in the classical setting way before， in the 80s。

And the reason two provers is much easier to deal with like usually if you have two provers that are not that you can kind of put in different rooms。

 you know， they cannot communicate。Then this is， it's a very powerful proof system。And intuitively。

 the reason is that it's very hard to cheat。In the two prove model。And the intuition for that。

 why it's so hard to cheat， is think about like suspects。I'd say two people committed a crime。

And now they want to prove they're innocent。If there's only one person committed a crime and he needs to kind of convince you that he's innocent。

You was say， oh， I know， I wasn't there。 I was in Australia， but go find， go go find。

 you know that he's cheating。But if theres two， it's much harder to cheat consistently。

And all these kind of two provers proofs， both in the classical and for quantum computation。

Basically， they use the fact that the ver kind of tries to check to find an inconsistency between these two provers。

 yeah。帮测。哦哦O耶爷。First of all， this I'm not at all talking about zero knowledge。

 What we've seen in the homework is that if you run a zero knowledge proof。

 if you want zero knowledge and you run things in parallel， then then this breaks。1st of all。

 I want to say this is not at all here。 Just to be clear， I don't care about zero knowledge at all。

 It's not about hiding。 I don't want to hide anything。 I just want some integrity guarantee。

But but since you mentioned， I do want to say， actually， are zero knowledge proofs。

They assume one we function。 even， you know， the proofs we learned was the commitment。

A commitment can be constructeded from one functions。If you had to provers。

 we know how to construct the knowledge information theoretic。So， even in the even。

If you only care about zero knowledge， like then， then having two provers turns out to be useful。

 And the basic ideas， you can。You can do kind of information through a commitment that's both binding and hiding with two provers。

 That was kind of idea， yeah。I there any。fire。Okay， so you。Okay， no， so you're asking。

 how do you ensure that they're not interacting， good。So it's right。 How do you ensure。 So， you know。

 in the mid 80s， the answer was， oh， you put them in different rooms。Even the O， now in terms are O。

 now we need to。No wfi， too， because， you know， the fact there are different rooms doesn't mean we cannot interact。

 Okay， so now you turn up the Wifi， you turn up everything。 you don't interact。Actually。

 in the quantum setting。They may have like， their state may be this kind of entingled。

So MIP in the quantum setting needs， it's harder because we need to say even if you have some kind of quantum entanglement。

 still sound old。 You can't cheat。And yes， this， these things kind of。Actually。

 they use quantum entangle in both ways。 They use it for completeness and for like。They use it。These。

 these M IP， these two provers in proof or multipro interactive proof for proving quantum computation。

Even the honest provers often use some kind of quantum entanglement。 It's used for completeness。

But soundists， you need to protect against ruleors that have quantum entanglement。

 So for completeness， it's a feature for soundness， it's kind of it's annoying。 You know， it's。

 it's a double in sword。😊，嗯。Okay， and then let me just mention。

 we can actually turn these two provers into single prover。

So these two prove basically the verify sense question1， question 2。He gets back answer one。

 He gets to answer 2， and then he decides to accept or reject。

But if we have fully homomorphic encryption。Here's an idea of converting this two prove into a single prove。

So now we have single prover。What we can do。Is the verifier sends the see prover。The two queries。Now。

 that's not a good idea because I said the way like the verifier does some consistency check。

 if they give it to the same proveer， he's going to lie consistently like what so that's no good。

 but using fully homomorphic encryption。Here's what we're going to do。

 We we're going to give them query1 encrypted。Because we have quantum。FHG。He can compute。

The answer one of proveover 1 under the hood。And now we give。Qury2， we can give him the clear。

Becauseuse when he sees query 2， he have no idea what query 1 is。 That's encrypted。

And then he gives answer to。So we can actually convert it into single prover setting。Let me just say。

国的。He has， this verifier。 So if this verifier has randomness R。

 she chooses randomness R to choose kind of Q1， Q2。He also chooses the encryption。

 so he chooses kind of public key for the encryption。

 And he sends actually like the public key and encryption with public key。Of Q1， that's kind of。

And then he decrypts， and then he decides to accept to reject like he would。

Let me just say this is not。It， it seems secure。It seemed sound it was proved theres a very strong kind of。

So we know how to prove soundness of this。In many， many cases， But there are kind of， I would say。

 we don't always know how to， we don't always know how to prove sound。 This is not always。

 We don't know that this is always sound。We know that it's time for many。A， natural cases。But we。

 we this， whether this kind of the fact that you can't feed here implies the fact that you can't feed here。

 this problem is not fully fully resolved。 Let me just keep it at that。 That's also very。

 very interesting problem。 is can one just， there's been a a lot of work recently kind of。

Making progress and showing that this is on for many natural protocols。

 but this is still kind of under investigation。O， yeah。Quantum， yes， yes， indeed。 Quant proofs。 Yeah。

 if this prover was classical， it sounds。 if this is quantum。It's。

ItSo if the only way to cheat here is via finite。State。Is by by cheating with a finite state。

 But if you can cheat with an infinite state， quantum state， it's not at all clear。 Now。

 this infinite state seems like it may be contrived but。

There is this asterisk whether this is always sound。 It's still not 100% kind of。I solved。

But it is a natural way of converting two pos to a single prove。No， it's under FG。 still under FG。

 You need to some FG because if if， if this blue can break the FG。

 he can definitely cheat because then he knows the two。 Then when he sees Q2， he knows Q1。

 and then he'll just cheat consistently。So we still， this is also an argument。Okay。Okay。

 so I have kind of five minutes。 I'll move to the last one unless someone has a question。Okay。

 so quantummania。Quantummania， wow， okay， so this is the case we all have quantum。In this case。

 we really， in this world， where we all have quantum。Ability we can exchange quantum states。

Really magical things can happen in this world。And the magic comes from the fact that you cannot clone quantum states。

 So as an example， one thing you can do。This is due to ourone I think was the first point of money。

So order't make quantum money， you can， I can give you a quantum state。

 And this quantum state is worth 100。You can't clone it。So if I give you bits。I give you a bit， bit。

 bit。 This is。 you'll copy the bit。If I give you a bit of this is worth $100， you'll copy it。

 you'll spend it in one store and then it's not another store。So there's no way you can do that。

 I mean， you can do it now with blockchain because you put everything in the chain， whatever。

 But in without blockchains， it's impossible unless you have like。

All the spending done in the sky and on some database that everybody can see， blah，lah bh。

But in general， of course， you， you can clone， you can clone in in classical world， you can clone。

 So if I give you a string， I thought this is a$ underdo。 you've cloned it and you'll spend it twice。

Want't them， on the other hand。There's no cloning principle。

So what it allows us to there's a lot of work on this。Is basically。

 we can exchange quantum states that are worth money。Okay， so it comes with verification。

 So there is some way I can give you a state。 You should be able to verify the state without collapsing it。

😊，That's important。 So you have some verification。 This verification should not change your state。

 So it's still worth。And now it's yours。 And now you can give give it to someone else。

 He can verify the state。 And now he has it。That's pretty amazing。

Here's another thing that can be done。 This is also a partner has a recent work。

 very nice work on this， which is one time programs。So suppose I want to give you a program。

 a quantum program。But I want you to be able to compute it only onces。Okay， so basically think of it。

 I'm giving you like a program that you can。I don't know。 It Give you a password to some to watch。

 It gives you some token that you can watch any movie you want。 But's not like giving you。

 you can watch all the movies in the world。 That would cost too much money。

So I'm giving you the stove， this program， and you can feed it whatever movie you want watch up the token。

The program disappears。Pretty amazing， right。 So one time program we cannot do for any programs。

 but there are some class of programs， significant class that Para Vi showed that you can do one time program for。

😊，That's pretty amazing。Another one， which actually really。

 really nice work that in the crypto conference this year last August won the best paper award。😊。

Is a work that does one shot signatures。 What is a one shot signature。

I give you a I give you basically， you can I give you a token that allows you to kind of sign once。

Okay， so classically。I can give you my secret key。Then you can sign whatever you want。Or。Or not。

 like， I can't tell you， oh， you， you can sign only one message on behalf of me。

You can sign only once。 What you can sign only once。 I mean， yeah。

 you can tell me I want to sign this。 I'll sign it for you。But using quantum。😮。

I can give you like a state that allows you to send whatever messages you want you want once。Then。

 it poofs disappears。Because it collapses， and you can't comb。So basically。

 the snow cooling principle。😮，I guess the point I want to make is the snow planninging principle allows us to do things。

That there's no way we can do using just classical。And that's kind of it gives us really。

 really nice。 We can actually prove a lot of things that actually very。

 very nice we can do with quantum。 even beyond that。 For example。

 I can prove too that I generated a truly random number。😊，Like an end bit random street。

ItSees like unbelievable。 No， like， would it。I mean， I can try。 Ill give you a string，0，1，1，0，0，1，1。

1。 I'm saying it's random。 it's random。How how can you tell if it's random or not， like。You know。

 did I generate the terrificically， Did I randomly， How do you know with quantum I can prove to you。

 This was randomly generated。So anyway， I I'm the point of this is to kind of for your curiosity。

 There's a lot of really， really amazing things that can be done and are now kind of being explored more and more。

 So yeah。😊，Howてを声が。If you can。你。Exactly。Sts。W can。Okay， good。

 So there are quantum state that you can generate efficiently。

 You start with a state that's all zeros。 You apply some unitary and get like a quantum state。

And these kind of quantum states， you can clone。 you can generate menu。

 you can always start with zeros apply unit here and you get them。But some quantum state。

 you cannot call because you don't know how they started。And you don't know how， like how。

 how you got these date， basically。And these kind of， that's kind of what， for example。

 quantum money。Is based under there some secret。 This secret is used to generate this quantum money。

But if you don't know the secret， you don't know how to generate quantum money your own。

So that's kind of， because now you have the state without the secret。 You can't， you can't kind of。

Okay， so I hope I curb your curiosity here a little bit。 Next on Wednesday， I'll do kind of a。

Summary of like what we did in class。 And then I'll tell a little bit about kind of the new big thing in our life。

 which is all these language models and machine learning and how how we think we should help kind of ensure safety of that。

 So I'll see you on Wednesday。