# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p13 6.5620 Lecture on 10⧸15⧸2025 (Wed).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p13-

。O。OK。Hi， everyone。So hi I heard kind of midterm talk here so I guess we should say something about the midterm we didn't write the midterm yet so I'm not sure what to say it will not be open books but we will allow a cheat sheet the point of that is I think doing the cheat sheet kind of forces you to to practice for the kind of get ready for the exam so that's good。

😊，I'm not sure， that's all I have to say， I guess it won't be too difficult。

We'll try to the point of the midterm is just to make sure you understand the material。

 It's not going to be like tricky questions or anything like that。

 or at least that's what we'll try to do。But we'll。

 we'll post in the next couple days a practice midterm。

 So you'll have a sense of what what it's like。Okay， a questions before I start anything。Okay。

 so last time in the last lecture we moved into kind of the corridor of public key encryption。

 we defined key agreement， we showed the Dffy Heman key agreement protocol。😊。

And then we defined publicly encryption， CPA security， and we showed Elgamal encryption scheme。

We constructed the scheme and what we'll do today is we'll prove the security of the Elgamal encryption scheme。

😊，And then we're going to construct and show how so the egamar encryption scheme and also the diy humanman key exchange or key agreement are based on very specific number theoretic assumptions。

 Okay， it's based on kind of the decisional difi helmetman assumption。

 it's a very specific assumption。😊，This is different from what we saw in the symmetric key setting where we could construct encryption scheme from any one way function and there's gazillion ways to construct one way functions and so then there's a question can we construct public encryption from kind of generic assumptions？

😊，And the answer is。😊，MK of。 So we do have a generic assumption。 It's called trapor functions or。😊。

Which also know by trap door。Injective。One way。Functions。

I'll explain what they are and from there we're going to construct public encryption that's the plan for today and then of course the question is do we have such trapor functions or trap or injective oneway functions and the answer is yes under very specific assumptions and we're going to see some of that next class。

😊，And then we'll move to kind of a lattice world and we're going to show some cryptography based on lattices。

 which is kind of the first， you know it's one of the main way today we know how to construct post quantum scheme so we didn't talk about quantum yet in this class。

 but let me just mention quantum is a big attack for cryptography in particular the DDH assumption the computational di assumption factoring are all known to be broken if we had using a quantum computer。

 using a large scale quantum computers。Now today we don't have such largescale quantum computers。

 but it seems that progress in that realM is being done really fast now so they may come in the next。

 I don't know， 10 years and hence crypto is kind of moving away from these assumptions to assumptions that we believe are to be post quantumum secure。

 and much of this is in the world of latticesses， which will go into kind of starting if not next class the one after。

So that's the plan。Okay， questions before we begin。Okay。

 so let's just recap kind of the egamal encryption scheme。

 which we're going to prove is secure today。 So the egamal encryption scheme relies on a group G of prime order Q。

 The order of the group order meaning the number elements。

 The number of elements of the group is a prime Q， but Q is roughly of length2 to the of size2 to the lambda。

 Okay， so you can the idea is you can represent elements。😊，In the group， we are like lambmbda bits。

 Okay， so you can think of it as like。S lambda order Q is approximately of size something like Tut de lambda。

And it also has a generator G。And okay， so now what is the key generation algorithm of the encryption scheme。

 So remember that public encryption outputs a public key and a secret key， public key。

 So I post a public key， I keep my secret key to myself。So in theelgamal， my public。

 I'm going to choose a random S in ZQ。And I'm going to post G to the S as my public key。

And I'm going keep S to myself as the secret key。Okay。

 and recall that G to S can be done efficiently via like a squaring， multiplicative squaring。

 So it can be done in time， roughly like poly Lambda as opposed to two to the lambda。

 So this can be done efficiently。Now， if you want to encrypt the message to me， here's what you do。

 so you have my public key， I give you my message， think of the message as being a group element。😡。

And then what you're going to do， you're going to choose a random R in Zq。

 So R is going to be random in Zq。You're going to send me K to the R。

And then you can compute G to the S R on your own because you know R G to the S is my public key。Now。

 note， this is exactly the diffy element this is the key we would get。So this。

Is exactly the diffyel key。We would get if this was my message and this was your message。

So now an adversary that sees my public key and sees your G to the R。This looks completely random。

Now you use it as a mask to mask your messaging。😡，So we can think of M。

 the message space is the group。 Okay， the message you want to encrypt are group elements。

And this is how you encrypt。Now， of course， you can say， why do I want to encrypt group elements？

 I want encrypt bits like 0，1 to the lambda， Lada bit string or more。

 What do you mean encrypt group elements。So。We'll talk about more later。

 but you can even think of you want to encrypt 01 and 0 will be like encrypting the element 1 and one will be encrypting the element G。

😡，Okay， so you can think of it。 This as kind of。You can think of actually encrypting 01 as encrypted g to the 0 and g to the1。

And now， so that you just encrypt bit by bit。And now， when you decrypt。

 you see if you got P to 0 or you got G to the 1。 Yeah， are you going do this。

How we know that this scene is going to be secure even if he send like many messages。

A long message to like chunks prove that Yeah exactly， it's a great question。

 So let me repeat the question because that's exactly what we're going to prove today。

You're saying wait， okay， if you see only one encryption， one cipher text， yeah。

 this looks random because of ifelman key exchange because it's said they've given this and this。

 this looks random， So it's a good mask， but you can begin you say wait。

 but thatversary is going to see many messages。So he's going to see many guitartars。And many。D们。

Kind of keys with the sameness。Isn't that a problem for security？And that's where it's not a problem。

 but we'll prove it that it's not a problem。Did you have any other questions？Okay， question resolved。

 Okay， great。So， okay， and decryption， decryption is just a standard thing。

 I'm not going to write it， but okay， fine decryption。Given S and given a ciphert。

 which is I don know calls G to the R and the C。What you do， you raise this to the R and you unmask。

 So you output C and you unmask it with G to the minus Rs。Okay， that's the message。O。

Why is this secure， Any questions about the scheme itself， though， later。

 we'll see another variant of it。 But for now， that's the scheme。 Why is it secure。

So I'm going to prove that it's secure under the DDH assumption written up there。 Okay。

 so the DDH assumption says that if I choose。😊，A random aid。This is if I choose a random A。

 a random B。And a random seat。In ZQ。You can distinguish between the case that I gave you G to A。

 G to the B， and G to the A B。And G to the G to the B and G to the C。Okay。And as we said last time。

 this is。I mean， it's an assumption。 This assumption is false if you take ZP star， for example。

 as your group， because it's not a prime order。But if you take a subgroup of Z P star of prime order。

 we believe that this assumption is true。Okay， we talked about this extensively last time。

 But for now， just think of N G and just assume this is an assumption that we take for granted。

One more thing I want to say， note， it's very important that G has very large order。

Because if Jesus is a small group， you can just exhaustive search。

So I'm going to eventually find that I'm going to go over all the elements in ZQ and check， you know。

 G G to the square， G to the third G to the fourth until I find kind of the discrete log， the A， B。

 and C。So it's really important that the group is very large。O。

 questions before we prove CPA security。Okay， so let's recall first what is the CPA security game for public encryption so in this game。

The adversary。 so to put pay security， we need to prove that every adversary。

Winds in the CPA game with probability at most half plus negligible。 Okay。

 so we can do better than half。What is the game， the adversary is getting a public key generated by the key gen。

He gets the public key， he can observe it， look at it， play with it， then he gives two messages。

 M0 and M1。😡，And the challenger encrypts one of them。 He encrypts and B for a random B。

 So he chooses a random one of them in that what he encrypts。 and the adversary's goal。

 his job is to know which message was encrypted him， which was the chosen message。

And he wins if he guesses correctly。Now， of course， you can always guess what probability they have。

But it's secure if you can't do better than half or better than half plus negligible。Okay。

 so that's the CPA game and recall that in the secret key setting。

 we gave the adversary kind of if he could ask to see many encryptions of many messages of his choice here he doesn't need to ask that because he has the public key so he can just do that on his own。

😊，So any questions about this is a recap or questions about this definition。

It's totally fine to ask questions about things。We taught previous classes。Okay。

 so let's do the proof。So claim。哎你干 on。Encryption scheme。Is CPA secure？And now let me prove it。

And assuming did the age？So assuming the group that we use， the DDH assumption holds。So what I'm。

 I'm going to give you the proof。 And then I'm going to go back to the question of why is it okay to reuse the first message in the Diffyman K agreement protocol。

 But let's first， let's just plow through the proof。Okay。

 so how am we going to prove it by reduction， that's how we do proof in cryptography。

 I going assume that I have an I'm going to show if there is an adversary that breaks the security。

 then I can use this adversary to break the DDH assumption。😊，Okay， how is that done？So a。So suppose。

There exists apolilyized adversary。A and a non negligible function。Excellent。Such to that。😮。

A wins in the CPA game with probability at least half plus epsilon。Such that for every lambda。

He wins with probability half at least half plus epsilon of lambda。Okay。

 so suppose have an adversary who wins with better than half。

Now I'm going to use this adversary to break the DDH assumption。So I'm going to construct。

Apoly Science adversary。B。That will break the DDH。So here's what P does。😮，An input G to the A。

 G to the B， and G to the C。He will decide if C is random or C is a times B。Okay。

 so B gets with probability half。 He gets a completely random tuple。 A。

 B and C are truly random in ZQ。With probability half， he gets a DDH2ple。 A And B are random in Z Q。

 but C is A times B。 And he needs to guess which is the case。So now， okay。B and B does the following。

Let's see what he will do。So。He will try to use the adversary。 Yeah， so let's see。 So first。

 he needs to give the adversary public key。So okay， so B will emulate。The CPA game。With a。

And you will use a to decide if this is a DDH tripleple or random tuole。How will he do that？

 So now he， let's say he needs to So A comes。 He said， okay， he said， A help me。 He's like。

 give me a public key。Which public key is he going to give him？He has this two bowl。

 He's going to get in， let's say the first one， G to A。 So， O， so what he's going to do。So。

He's going to give a。Okay， maybe I'll write it here， so here's what we're going to do。We're gonna。

Give a the public key， which is G to a。It exactly looks like a public key。

 That's what the public key looks like， right it's G to the S。 So that's random。

 It looks like a valid public key。So as a okay， I got a public key。Work， work， work， work， work。

 ands going to again。So get this and obtain。M0 and M1。In the message space， O G。

Now we need to give A an encryption。😡，Of either M 0 or M1。So we're going to do。

 we're going to choose at random。S。A random be。And let's encrypt。MB， how do we encrypt MBmb。

 So remember the encryption。Is。A random G to the R and the public key race to the R times end。

The random G to the R I'm going to use this。😮，So sample B and compute。Encryption。Of MB。

 which is by giving G to the R， but the R is going to be G to the B。

 that's going to be my randomness。😡，And then I'm going to use this。Supposedly to mask。😡，Okay。

 now I don't know be if the way I should if it was valid， so let me。😡，I want to compute this。

But I want to use my G to the P。Now， what I should do is compute G to that AB。😡。

Times N that's that would be a Cyphertex， because the public key。Is this？😮。

So if I use this as my randomness， this should be the ciphertex。😊，But I， I don't have G to the A， B。

 I have G to the C。So instead of this。I'm going to give G to the C。Now， with purple behalf have。

This is what it is。Gta would probably have C's A B， would probably have itss random。😡。

This is what I give。Okay， so I compute this and I give it a， so compute and send。😊。

G to the B and G to the C times N。2 a。So this is kind of my encryption， yeah。😡，Okay， good。

 The question， do we have to add randomness， we do。I'm thinking of this is my randomness。So again。

 let's look from the I of a。 A doesn't know my input。 What does A C， AC C he got。

A random k you today， that's a random。Now he gets a Cyphertex， he should get G to the random。

 get G to the be， he's random。😡，Because here， here， A and B are both random。😡，And C is either random。

Or in timessby。Half half。 that's the distribution of input to B。

So now he gave the public key is just G to the random like it should be。

 the ciphert is G to the random。It should be G to the A B times n G to that yeah AB times R M。

 that's what it should be。😡，I give him due to the C。

 Now due to the C may be due to the AB with probability half， that's what it is。

 and with probability half， it's random。😡，Okay now supposedly。

 A shouldn't be able to solve a difference anyway。Because the DDH assumption。

 nobody can say can tell if it's random or G to AB。Okay， but this is what we give A and now a。

A sends。Be prime。Now， what do we do？Here's the thing。C was indeed D G to the AB。Then。You know。

 we say that then I know B PR A predicts correctly was probability better than half。

So there's a bias towards the correct B。😡，C was a times B。This should look like correlated with B。😮。

Otherwise。It should otherwise， there's no way if， if each of us is completely random。

 this is truly random。 Like M is gone。So he shouldn't have any advantage。

So what do we do so what B does？😮，Output。Kind of DDH。If。B prime equals to B。 if it gets correctly。

 I'm going to say I got a DDH2。And if he didn't， and outputll put。Random。Otherwise。Okay。

 so B was supposed to guess if he got DDH or random。😡，If A guessed the bit correctly。

 he would say he got a DDH2ple and if he didn't guess correctly， we willll say random。Okay。

 that's the the。What B does。 And now I want to argue that B indeed solved like a guest broke the DDH assumption。

Okay， so what I want to argue is that B。😡，Is a distinguisher that distinguish between random and DDA that' probably better than half。

Basically， distinguishers with probability have perpsa。That's of what I want to argue。诶。哦。That to me。

Okay， so let's pull that。Sorry。So okay， so now let's see what is the probability outputs that B outputs DDH？

If he got a DDH2ple， Okay， so the probability。 So let's think of DDH as being one in random is 0。

 Okay， fine， doesn't matter。 The probability。P B。Outputs given G to the A， G to the B。G to the C。

A output。01。 So let's see DDh。Means outputs1 and random。It means output  zero。 Okay， that's okay。

 So the probability that he outputs 1 conditioned and C equals a times B。

So if we actually got a D DH2ple。What is the probability that he's going to output one？In that case。

 if it was a DDH2ple， he simulates the game between the adversary and the challenger perfectly。

This is a real game。 A got a public key， It looks exactly like a random public key view today A is random。

😊，When he gets， he gives M0 and M1， the encryption that he gets of MB is exactly what it should look like。

 it's a random G to the BB is completely random， and then you mask M with G times G to the power of A。

😡，If Cs AB。So it's perfectly like a game。And by our assumption。

He wins with probably half perceptps one。So。We output one if he wins。😡，1。

 if and only if b equals b prime， so this happened with probability half plus epsilon。😡，Okay。

 now what if？😮，What's the probability？The G， GB， Gc equals 1。If。Like see's random。So now what does。

 so now B outputs1， if and only if a gets correctly。Right if B prime equals B。

 what is the probability that a guesses correctly， It Cs truly random， yeah。Just have。It's。

M is basically gone， the distribution of G to the C Tan is completely uniform。😡，ILMBsorry啊。Sorry。

 I missed。 be。So the probability here。你啥。And this exactly breaks the DDH assumption。Okay。

 because now we have a distinguisher that distinguishes between DDH tuupple and random tus。

And that's exactly a break to the DDH assumption， yeah。Good， so， okay。First of all。

 if a refuses to answer， then you can say you just。There is no refuse。 If you had the refuses put 0。

 whatever。 you know， you can say with general， you can think that， if you refuses to answer。

 he's like just doing worse。 He's definitely going to win less。

 So you can always assume that he output something。

The point is that A cannot behave differently if he gets G to the C or G to the A B。

 And the reason why he cannot behave differently is because he can't distinguish between the two。

That's really what we're relying on。 The DDH assumption says from As。Eyes。He's no idea。

If he's given G to the Ab B or G to the random C， that's really what the assumption says。

So it should be that if he succeeds。😡，In guessing if he gets G to the A。

 he should also succeed on a random scene。 But there there's no way he succeeds because information theoretically。

 the message is gone。So that's kind of how。Basically， the proof works。Okay。Any other questions。Okay。

 if anyone has any question about the proof， please ask I love questions。Yeah这突然。A single bit。

 and that's why。Good yeah， exactly。 It's one half probability because we're masking。 Basically。

 there are just two options。 There are N 0 and1。 You just need to guess which one。

 And you can always guess， you know， exactly。 Theres only one bit to guess M 0 M M M1， exactly。

Other questions？Okay， so I'm going to throw back the question at you and the question that I got from the beginning of the class。

 which is a great question， which is， wait， how can that be secure。

 Because note CPA security tells you that even if the adversary sees many， many cipherts。Still。

 things are secure。But now， basically， he sees like a key agreement protocol with the same first message many。

 many times。So let's say， for example， the adverary tells me。In the CPA game。

 I want you to encrypt the message1。And then again。

 give me another encryption of the message 1 and give me another encryption with the message 1。

 He just wants to see more more encryptions of the message 1。What will the adversary see？

So in the CPA game。Let's see， the adversary sees the public key， which is let's say G to A。

This is the public key。And then he can say， give me an encryption of one。

 in which case you give him G to， let me call it B1。And G to the A。

 B1 times1 because the message is one。So this is one encryption of the message1。But now you can say。

 I want to see another encryption with the message1。And you will see another one， G to the B2。

G to the public key race to the B2。Times 1。And then you can also see another one and another one and another one。

Basically， what the dresser gets to see。Is many， many kind of diffyelman。Ks。

With respect to the first message。It just the second messages are different。

So really what we deduced is even though the adary can see all these。

After he sees all this still when he sees G to the newbie。And D to the A B。This looks。

And distinguishable from uniform。So like we get many， many masks with respect to purse。

 even if we use the same first message， you can think of this as the first message。

Of the Diffffyhammon key Exchange。Key agreement。 it's called。

This is called a key agreement protocol or key exchange protocol， both terminologies are used。

 so that's why I'm going from one to the other。So this is the first message of the Diffy Human K we protocol and now for any second message。

 you see the key， another random second message， you see the key， another second message see the key。

😊，And even if you saw these keys still for another random message， the key looks random。

Pretty interesting。Why is that， yeah？Yeah that。Okay， so right， so basically。It's。Basically。

 you're right， but another way to say it is that this。Anybody can generate on its own。

 This is not leaking anything about G today。So you're seeing you today。

 that's very easy to generate this。 Just compute B1。Compute G to the B1。 Comp this。

 This is not helpful。This is just something that you can compute given to today。

So this kind of information。😮，Is something that's very efficient to simulate given nothing。

 This is no， this is not helpful information to break the D D， this kind of a。

The the diffy human key exchange。Yeah， I guess another way to put it is basically the adversary。

There are a lot。Inscription stop of that going there。Exactly。

 don't have to ask for anything they exactly message exactlyact。

 that's exactly another way that's precisely why in the CPA game， he doesn't get any cybertex。

Because it can compute them on its own。 So basically。The fact。That G to the A。

 G to the B and G to the C。Is indistinguishable from G to the A， G to the B。And uniform。This fact。

Implies that this is true， even given information that's sufficiently computable from these two or from。

 I guess just one。😡，Because the distinguisher can compute efficiently for any efficient information given G today and all these things are just efficient things that can be computed from G today。

Any questions。Good。Okay， so I just want to point out one thing。 its we really here use the fact。

That the DDH assumption， Okay， it was very important for us that this。啊啊。That this。It's truly random。

Because even if a little bit was leaked， that would leak information about M。😡，Okay now。Actually。

 let me tell you， we don't have to rely on the DDH assumption。 We can madly tweak the scheme。😊。

And rely on the CdH assumption。 The CH is the computational version of Dfialman。😊。

Let me write it here， so the CH assumption， the computational difialman。Just says。

That given that for any polyci。8。There exists in negligible。

Mu such that the probability now the task is given G to the A and G to the B。😡，Find the G2 A。

Not distinguish it from random。 Actually find it。That's much harder。And this should be。I most neible。

 so this is a much weaker assumption。Because it's much weaker because the avers's job is much。

 much harder。now we're assuming that it's hard to find the entire thing。😡。

It may be easy to distinguish from random， but hard to find。😡，Okay。

 so now this assumption is the CDH assumption is definitely not enough for this scheme to be secure。

Because let's say you can compute almost everything about G to the AB， except for like。

 I don't know a little bit， like log squared lambda bits that are really， really hard。😡。

So you can't find the entire thing。😡，But distinguishing is very easy。

 And then you get a lot of information about M。So。In general。if you this thing requires DDH。😡。

Now I want to present a variant。Where C D where C DH suffice it。 So instead of the decision version。

 I want the computational version。Okay， so now what do I do？Basically。

What I want to give instead of masking M with the entire thing。

I want to mask M with kind of a hardcore predicate。

So basically the way what we do so to make it under DDH。Instead。A using this。😮。

So I'm going to change everything is the same， like this is the same。 I also want to mask M。

 but instead of masking it with this。😊，So let me change it。This is going to change。To be。

 I'm going to apply some。H， and I'll say what I want from this S， H and G to the SR。

And I like sword with them。Okay， so what I， I want this to look random。😡，As long as G to the SR。

 SR is hard to find。 So I want to be the case。 if it's hard to compute G to the SR。

 if it's hard to compute this thing。Then I want each of this to look completely random。

AndThen it's a good mask。 I can use it as a one time pair。Okay， so this is going to be。Our variant。

阿飞一个嘛。And now I want to argue that there exists a hash function for which this variant is secure under CDDH。

Okay， so。Now I want to argue。So now I want to claim。The variant of Algamal。Is CPA secure？Under。CDH？4。

What a。 so I want to say it's under CDH， a weaker assumption。

 but then what H do I use is the question？So one example I can use for H is really just the hardcore predicate。

So let me tell you what I mean by the hardcore predicate， so for H。So let's use the randomized age。

 Let's just use the Qualavin H。 So H is given x and randomness R。

In outputs the x that R or sum of X I are I。So basically any hardcore predicate。

 but this is one that we've seen in the beginning of the class。Of the course。And this is not too。

Okay， so this is going to be my my H that I'm going to use。 and now the variant will be。

So now I'm going the we encrypt。let's say with public key G to the S and the message N。

 what I'm going to do is I'm going to give a random G to the R。Ah，Let me call this you。

I goes from Monna to Lada。And then I'm going to give you。And。😊，G to the。SR dot。You。

 and I'm going exhort this with a message。 This is going to be my mask。

Okay I'm just going to use this as a mask。Now。This can look a little odd because。

This age takes its input。X。In 01 to something。 let's say it can be lambda。

 but let me call it in general L。 okay it takes two things in 01 to the L。

 I'm just changing the lambda L because lambda is taking to be the size of the group and this L may not be exactly the same two to the lambda。

 but in general can be for any L L think of it as polynomial and lambda can be a little less be little more。

😊，So now the point is that if this is hard to compute。

What Gold Lavin tells us that this thing looks uniform。So it's a good mask。

The thing that's a little fishy here is that syntactically， these things don't work because。

This should be vectors 01 to the L， and this is a group element。😊，So。Things don't match。But it's not。

 you can make a match， you can always embed a group element。😡，Like。

 how do you express a group element， You can always express it as an element in 0，1 to the L。

Often  zero1 to the lambda。 But let me not。 So just think of you suppose you can express the group element as a bit string。

 and we can always express it the bit string。 Otherwise。

 how do we write it down Well some machines work with bits。😊，So just express it is a bit string。

 and now the Go Ravine tells us that if。You could guess this。😮。

You can predict this with probability better than half。Then you can find G to SR。

 That's basically what we showed。Okay， what we showed in the beginning of the course towards the beginning of the course is that if there exists。

So now basically case1 is that given you。😡，Given G to the R， u G to the SR times u。

This is indistinguishable from G to the R U and completely random bit。

If this looks like a completely random bit， of course。

 we get security because M is completely masked。It's massed， we ext with a key。

 you can think of this as a key。So we're good。Case 2。Or okay， sorry。This is case two。It's not。

You can distinguish。But if you can distinguish， then what we showed in the beginning of this course is that you can take this distinguisher。

😊，And use it to find you to thatar。And that will break C DH。 So in this case， we get a break。To CD。

So that's basically， I'm not going to do it formally， but this is basically how it works。Yeah。Good。

 great， great， great question。 So this mask is 1 bit because the hardcore predicate outputs just 1 bit。

 So this is only for message space。😊，This is for meth， this is M。In01。

Ca Harco product up with a single bit。But it's O。 We can encrypt it by bit。 So， yes， true。

 When we do it this way， we get just one bit of output， but we get a better assumption， CdH。Now。

 let me tell you what things people， what's done in practice， even though this is a theory class。

 But the reason I'm going to teach you because， well。

 maybe good to know a little bit what's going on， but also because it will。

Benefit me because it's something we'll talk about later。 So in practice， what people do。

 they don't actually use the original variant of egamal。They use this variant to begaman。

 what I wrote here。But they don't use a Harcore predicate。Actually， the H they use， it outputs many。

 many bits。So。And。Maybe I'm already here。So in practice。People use H。That goes from a group。

To many bits， that's a01 to the lambda。Bits， so they don't use a hardcore predicate。

They use something that outputs many， many bits。And now you can say， okay。

 but what's the assumption on H then。Because what， so what， what do we need H。Collgen resistant。

 one way function， what is it we need？It fit outputs that many bits。And what， O， So the truth is。

 we don't have。A good answer， if you want to output many， many bits。

Usually what people use in practice is they assume that this age。😮。

Is what's called kind of a random oracle？So basically what they say is。

 let me try to analyze the scheme。Assuming。H is like a truly random function。So you say， wait。

 but how， so， but we need to compute it。 So how do you compute H， It's a truly random function。

 Let's say that all the parties， including the adversary， they have like a black box access stage。

So suppose all the parties in and adversary。 if you want to compute H and some input。

 you send the input to a blocks， you get back to output。

 And let's say this box implement a truly random function。 So for any input and G。

 it gives you a truly random element。And suppose this is D。They argue security。And now。

 but you're saying， okay， but we don't have or random oracs。 So， but how do we actually。

 if you want to implement the scheme， how do we implement this scheme。So in practice， they're like。

Random or heuristics。 So there are these kind of hash functions that are built in all these library like a Sha256 or Sha 3。

 they have all these name。 By the way， that's the funny thing。 Shah stands for secure hash algorithm。

😊，The funny thing is the fact that they call it secure is very nice， it doesn't mean it's secure。

 so you know they started with Shah1， so secure hash algorithm1， which was then broken。

 so kind of shows the name Sha is not really appropriate。

 so never be confused by the fact that people call their scheme secure do not make them secure but that's kind of how the name but they have basically these heuristics that they use instead。

😊，And even though。This kind of， when we argue， when we prove security in the randomnaoral model。

It does not mean the scheme is secure in real life because in real life the H is not aroundal。

 it's a shot 256 or whatever it is。😡，So it's not a random or， so why proof of security in the R orle？

😡，And the answer is in practice， it is proved to be a very， very good proxy。

 so we don't actually have good examples of things that were proven secure in the animalal model were used in the wild and were broken。

 We don't have any examples of such。We do have examples。

 but we started with examples of contrived schemes。That were secure。

 proven secure in the randomal model， but broken， no matter which implementation of hash functions you used。

😡，But this was very contrived。And since then， we have found better examples that are slightly less contrived。

 but none of them is like。Completely not contrived that has been used like， you know。

 we never saw an example of something that was used， proved to the anti model and broken in reality。

 So it has proved to be a good proxy。But again， the fact that we improve security in the randomnaoral model does not imply the scheme is secure。

It may be insecure， not only respect to the hash function that is currently used。

 it may be ins respect to any hash function。😡，So it does not imply security， but it is a good proxy。

Okay， so any questions before we break。Yeah。No， so okay， when I say breaking。

 suppose I proven that theelgamal encryption scheme with H。That outputs many， many bits。

Is secure in the randomoral model。😡，Now so it CPA secure if you model H as anal。😡，Now it's broken。

 when I say in the real world， it's broken， I mean。

 there's an diversitydver that breaks the CPA game that actually with the actual hash function that you're giving be it chart of 56 or whatever。

 actually， there exists an adversary who manages to。

Guess the big B of the CPA game probably better than half plus with probably half plus non negligible。

 That for me is a break。Okay， great， great question。 Thank you。AnyAny other questions？Okay。

 so let's take a couple minute break， and then we'll move to trap door functions。Okay。Let's continue。

 So what we're going to do next。Is working So okay， we saw Al Gamal an encryption scheme。

 and we proved that it secure the original variant DDH， the hash variant under C DH。

Both of which very specific number theoretical assumptions。And now the question is。

 can we construct it based on generic assumptions， not very specific group theory based assumptions？

😊，And now I'm going to show you kind of a generic construction from any trapor function。

 by the way when I say trapor function， I mean trapor injected one way function。😊。

I've seen there's like different the terminology here is not unified all across the literature。

But let me define what I mean here。 I'm going to call trapor functions。 but let me say what I mean。

 So I'm going define what a trapor function is。 and then I'm going to show you how to construct an encryption scheme from any trapor function family。

Okay， so trapor function family， so let's do the definition。😊，It consists with from so it consists。

Of PPT Pro phenomenaial time key generation algorithm，Where gen N so and a family of functions。

 F sub hasshki。So this family。Such that。Jen。And input one to the Lada。Outputs are public hash key。

And the secret。F to。 so it outputs a pair， it's a random algorithm。

 It outputs a public hash key and a private traptor key。And then。The hash key defines so。

A function F of hash key。That goes from some domain that may depend on Hashki。

To some range that may depend on hashki。In the following properties should be satisfied。

Is you can efficiently compute。And what this means is there a polytime algorithm。

That given a hash key。That， for any hash key。In the domain， out in the output。By then。

And for every for every X。In the domain。Outputs。The function。安ex。So given the hash key in an x。

 you can officially compute the function。😊，I'll continue here。2。

You can efficiently sample from DH from the domain， you can sample randomly from the domain。

 So two is efficient。Sampling。Which just means that there exists BPT algorithm。Slect to that。

For every hash key。Output by Gen。A， andm。組織？Outputs a random X in the domain。

 a random output in the domain so。Maybe the way to write is for every H and for every X。

In the domain。The这个。I don here， the probability。That a。And the hash key， outputs this X。

Is exactly one over。Okay， so you can basically sample this is just saying that A and HK samples uniformly in the domain。

 elements uniformly in the domain。Yeah， except that the domain may depend on HK。

I'm sitting in the most generality because the domain may change， may depend on the Hashki。😡。

The truth is for today you can think of the domain as actually being just 01 to the lambda but in general。

 let me give you an example of you can think of like the hash key can be like a product of two primes。

 so it's like n and the domain is the N star。😊，So it's a little different for。Different ends。

So it can depend on so I'm giving you kind of the most general definition。 But actually， for today。

 you can just think of D sub H case just being 01 to the lambda。It's a good proxy for understanding。

 but I'm giving you kind of the most， most generally， the domain can depend on the hashke。

And so you want to be able to sample randomly from the domain。Okay， given the Hashky。Okay， three。

Is given the trap door you can invert。Okay， so inverting。Inversion。Using。差不多。So， this says that。

For every。Hash key and track door。Output by gen。Sorry， there exists A polyly time。

Inversion algorithm， I。So to that。For every hashk tractor key， for every x in the domain。I。

Given the trap door key and given F。Iex。Always output。Okay that's not probabilistic。

 that's deterministic。Okay， and this in particular means that it's one that it's injected。Okay。

 if this function was an injective， you wouldn't know which one to put。

So this in particular implies the function is injective。Okay。

 so it's injective and using the trapor you can invert。So how。Yeah， it's a secret。

In the context of you can think of this， you can think of it as a public key。

 and this is a secret key。😊，It's just in the context of hash functions。

 The terminology is hash key is the public key and the trap door is like secret information that's used to do things。

 Yeah， it is a secret key of public key。😊，And the last thing is one way。

So basically without the trap door， it's hard to revert。Okay， so for any。Poly signs。3。

There exists and negligible。M such that for every land。

The probability over hash key and trap door key generated from Gen。The probability and X generated。

Sample from the domain。The probability that a， given the hash key。In given F and hash key and x。

 the probabilityguty that it can find x is negligible。Okay， so hard to hard to invert。

 So here it says given the hash key and the random the function evaluated and a random amount in the domain。

😊，You should be able to invert only with natural probability。But with the trapor。

 you can invert always。Okay。And again， maybe for today be the easiest to think about。

Let's think of this。😮，It's being just 0，1 to the la。

And then I'll say something about the general case， but I think itll be easy。

 It'll be a good proxy to think of D of the domain as just the same domain for everyone。It。

 it does lose generality。 This is not with all of generality， but it' just easier。 Okay。

 so yeah again， it's a family of functions。 you can efficiently compute。

You can always officially sample from the domain， well that's over0 to the lambda and given a it's hard to invert。

 but given a trapor， it's easy to invert。Okay， function， that's a trap door function family。

I'll talk about constructing trap door function families next time。Next slide。

 we'll see some structures。But for now， let me prove to you that if you， So first of all。

 you can ask a course， do we have such function families are they easy to find。

And the answer is we have not very easy to find， actually。

 we have it under very specific number theoreticaltic assumptions。It's not like in one way functions。

 you can just kind of engineer， you know， take like too many ads or do kind of crazy things and probably it's going to be a one way function。

It's not going to be a trapor one way function because you need to kind of embed a trapor that makes it easy to convertver。

We don't have very generic constructions， like we do for one way functions。

So it's harder to find trapor functions。But we do have examples。 Okay。

 and we're going to see that next time。Today， what I want to show you is if you had such a trap dooror function。

 how do you encrypt？Okay， so let's construct an encryption scheme。😊，From。Crarap your functions。

I'm a trap family。And I'm going to denote it by F sorry， Jen。And。F sub。That can be， me call it Genf。

Because our encryption will also have a gender。Okay， so let's construct our encryption scheme。

So okay， so Jen for the encryption scheme。What is the key。

 The only thing I can think of is giving the hashkin the tract key， right。

 So so what I'm going to do is generate。haashki。Andtractor key。Using the trapor function family。

 and I'm going to output。Public key and secret key， which are exactly this pair hash key。

 Tra door key。 but now how am we going to use the hash key to encrypt？😊，So now how do I encrypt？

I get a hash key。And have a message。How do I encrypt this message？Let's think my message。

 my encryption scheme is going to have。😊，Message space， which is 01， so I'm going to just input bits。

So I want to encrypt to bit 0 bit one using the hash key。What can I do？Any guesses。

 like a first step？Okay， let me yeah。ユース？嗯哼。Exactly， okay， good， but good。 But the first thing。

 it's exactly right。 The first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to choose a random X。Which I can。

 I can sample random。 Well， we guess we would just01 to the lambda， but in general， I can sample。

 so it's easy。And。Compute。F。HK andX。Okay， good。 now we know。

Someone who only has HK doesn't know what x is because it's one way。So， that's good。decryor。

 so let's say I don't encrypt to you， you give me your hassky。I'm going to choose a random X。

 I am going to compute this。😊，I know you can find X。Because you， you have the trap door key。

So you can find x， nobody else can find x。😡，Without the tract of kids one way。

So now what I'm going to do。😮，So I'm going to output。😮，Basically， that F。I'm Max。And I want to mask。

With a Harcore predicate an X。Okay， and。Basically， okay， let me write。Specifically。

 I'm going to choose a random R， I'm going to do R at x， and I'm going to mask that with a message。

And let's think of x as。Bing 01。To the lambda。Otherwise， we need to embed it in01 to the Lada。

 which can be done。Similar to the way we talked about about the group。

 you can also always think of everything then the day you can describe as bits。

But let's just think of it being01 to the la。That's the encryption and now how do you decrypt？

Given the tracttor key。And given， I guess， let me call this why。Okay， Y R and the Cyphertex C。

What do you do？You first use the trapor key to invert。So first thing you do。

 you compute inversion on chapteror key and y and get x。Because the y is F of x。And then。You output。

😮，R dotX。And you exor it with the cipher textex， you undo the mask。

So this C is M masked with the Harco predicate， and you undo the mask。Any any questions？No questions。

Cl let's see， security。So。Queen。This construction。Is CPA secure？Assuming the。

 assuming we use a trapor function， Yeah， assuming。But。啊。The Gen F。And。FH。Is a chaptertor family。

After you when I， if I need to say it， I okay， this is assuming that function is a function family。

 This is not a good。 I need to of this。If I mention everything to say I， whatever。

 assuming we use a function chapter function family。Okay， so let's see。Correctness is pretty easy。😮。

Follows from the fact that we have a inverter， using the using the tractor。

 we can efficiently invert。Good with crackness。Okay， let's now talk about security。

So what I'm going to do， I'm going to show you that if you have an adversary that breaks the CPA security。

 I can use them to invert。The the function。 Okay， I'm going to break the one way。Okay， so。Suppose。

There exists。Apoly size A。And not negligible。Eilon。Such that。诶。Winds。In CPA game。With probability。

Half plus Epone lambda for every lambda。And we're going to construct an adversary B that breaks the one way function。

That inverts with only hasshki。Okay， so we construct。A polyly size B？That given。

He is going to be given a random hash key。And a random element。For a random X in the domain。

 And he's going to invert X。Okay， that's going to be the goal。But let me help myself。 And actually。

 I'm gonna。So this is I want to find a B that inverts x， what I'm actually going to do。

It something easier and rely on the previous works。 What I'm actually going to do。

 I'm going to give a be that given this。And a random R。Outputs。R dot x。With probability。

 something like half plus epsilon。So basically it will break the hardcore predicate。

And what we proved。We prove that if you have an adversity that given for random R。Can guess R that X？

Then we have an address that just outputs X。😡，That kind of was in the hardcore predicate that when we proved that this is a hardcore predicate。

😊，Okay， so basically what we in the previous class we showed。

By saying that this is hardcore predicate， we reduced it to the fact that it's one way。

 we said every one way function has this is hardco predicate。 We said， oh， can， it's not hardcate。

 We can break the one wave function so we can find x。

So now we just need to argue that we can break aqua predicate and then use that what we learned in that class to invertex。

Okay， so for now， this is what we're going to do。Today。Okay， so let's see。

 how does B predict R thatx， What will he do， So let's see。 Well。

 he needs to use a right And then the CP game， which disappeared。 But it's O。 So let's see。

 So how does So B。Is going to emulate。The CPA game。With A。

And hope that A will help him find the Harco predicate。So let's see A first waits for a public key。

 The public key is going to be the hash key。 What else， You know， he got a hash key。

 So here's what he does。He's going to send。The public key， which is the hash key。Take。

Remember the public key is just a hash key？Now M。Is going to send？And the pain。M 0 and M1。

Now it's funny。 It's only bit。 so really the bits are just 01。

 but we'll still use this general notation， but you can think of M0 0 and M1 as being1。Now。

 what he's going to do， he's going to choose a random or simple。A random bit B。

And he's going to try to encrypt MB。 How do we encrypt MB？Not a problem。 And so we're going to send。

Give a。Let's see。F。needsSo here he chooses X and give。F， H K X。Here。He's going to take his challenge。

 his input。😡，Okay， so compute or okay， send。F okay， this is the Cyphertex， F H K of x。

The random hour that he got。And what he really needs to send here， he needs to send R dot X。

 X or with M。That's what he needs to send。But。He doesn't know X。So what does he do？So。He's okay。

 so what is he going to do， Hes going to guess。Okay， so basically what he does。

 so sample this and guess he is going to guess R x， let me denote it by D。😊。

 I'm going to choose D or sample the maybe maybe for every D for both D lets so R that x can be 0 or can be 1。

 it's a bit。😡，For both the， let's send the。XO with MB。

So we're going to first run cheating tell the adversary， this is the Cyphertex， guess。

And he's going to give me a guess， obtain。The B sub D。Depends， so when we give him。

 let's say R at x is 0。 We give him the Cyphertex。 He needs the guess B。So it gives me a guess。

Now really I wait let me try again。 Actually， I want to give you another。

 This is actually the Cyphert。 Now， guess。Any guesses。 So you give me a guess when I gave d equals 0。

 I called it B sub0 and it give me a guess for d equals1 and I get b sub1。Now， from these guests。

 from these bees， I need to guess what's the correct D， What is the correct carpo predicate。Okay。

 so what do I do， Well， if they're the same。B0 is equal to B1 so that is not helpful。

 He doesn't behave differently if I give him the correct abit or the and one of them is correct。

Either this is0 or this is one。😡，If the adversary is not helpful， he gives me the same answer。

 no matter what if I gave him here kind of the correcting or the incorrecting， then I choose output。

Like just a uniform。As the hardcore predicate， I don't know， I'm going to guess。Okay。

 so then I'm like， I don't know， I'll guess the Aqua predicate is just a random thing。

But if it's different。😊，But if。B0 is different than B1。

Then what will I guess is the hardcore predicate。So one of them is equal to the one of them is going to be equal to the correct B。

Exactly。And。If b0 is equal to B。Then I'm going to guess。0。Or， you know if B sub D。

 then I'm going to guess D。So basically， that is the following。If this is correct。

If I guess it feels the correct thing， he's going to guess B with probably half plus epsilon。

For a random， completely random thing he's going to have some probability to half。

So there's a bias towards the correcty。And what I'm doing so， I'm basically go like I'm。

Going with the bias， I'm looking at the correct B， and that's going to bias the Harcore predicate。

Okay， so one can argue that。If that the hardco that that。

By choosing D to be the one where the guess is correct。

This leavess the correct kind of prediction for the Harco predicate with some advantage of epon over random。

so I'm out of time，'s the end of this is kind of spelled out kind of clearly in the notes。

 but let me end here and next time we're going to start seeing construction of trapped or function families and maybe even start the lattices。

Okay， so see you on Monday。