# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p26 6.5620 Lecture on 12⧸3⧸2025 (Wed).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p26-

So。Kind of a left class。This is our last class before， like next week。Next。Actuallyかな。I do some。

I'm gonna， basically， we're going do a summary and talk about。

kind of things we didn't talk about in class， maybe some quantum cryptography。

 some AI and cryptography and the goal of the final week to just get you more excited and to get you to try to learn kind of more advanced and more kind of what basically the type of research we're doing today because what I'm showing you in this class。

 there's still research is done on the thing I'm teaching。

 but it's kind of pretty much saturated not fully saturated。

 but you know a lot of the things we do now are more kind of aim。😊。

Thinking about things that are kind of prompt that the world throws at us。

 new problems that the world that the world throws at us。

 and two of the big pillars there is quantum in machine learning。

 So my hope is the last week to kind of just tell you a little bit about where the field is on these topics。

But today， we're gonna finish the talking about NPC， secure multipart computation。 So we last class。

 we did kind of the。We talked about Se sharing and the definition of secure computation and today we're going to actually construct it。

 so we're going to see the BGW protocol this is due to Benno， Goldvaer and Wgdal Z。😊。

I'm going to tell you exactly what it is。 But before I want to recall the definition。

So in a secure multipart computation， there are n parties。 Okay， and we each have input。X 1。

 x2 up to X N。 So each party high I has input X I， and the goal is to jointly compute the output F a Xon of to X N。

 again， for simplicity， we're going to think that there's just one output given to all parties。

It's really just for simplicity。 You can think of different parties having different outputs。

 but it's just kind of notally simpler to think about it this way。

So their goal is to securely compute function F。Now， the question is。

 what does it mean securely in the presence of T corruptions。

 we're going to consider only honest but curious corruptions。

 So they want computer function F in the presence of T， honest but curious corruption。

And we say that a protocol。 so the parties talk， talk， talk。

 they're going to talk with secure channels， So assuming kind of。

 you know nobody can see what I'm sending you and you know it's for me。

 Okay so it's kind of secret and authentic and we can use encryption and signatures to kind of implement that。

 But for now we're just going assume that we have secure channels。

And we say that this protocol is secure if the following holds if for any adversary that controls T parties。

 So the district comes and kind of chooses T to control as soon as he controls these parties。

 he sees their inputs。So they really sees T inputs。Now。

 he engages in the protocol on behalf of these parties， but he has， he actually does the protocol。

 So he's honest。 He behaves honestly in the protocol。 whatever the protocol tell him to do。

 So the protocol specifies for each party which message to send he's behaving honestly。At the end。

All the parties send an output， say what their output。

 what they believe the output of the function is。😡，Now， if everything was。

Done like it should be the output。 Everybody should output Y， which is the output。 You know。

 F of xonom Tin。 everybody said the output is is Y F of xonom Txin。😡，Now， what is the security。

 the security said that for any adversary who tries， honest but curious， he follows the protocol。

 but his goal is to learn something from the protocol for any such adversary。😊，The。

This random variable， real。Our next one of Texan。This random variable。

 this distribution is identical。To this ideal distribution。 Now。

 what is this real distribution in this real distribution， all the parties follow the protocol。

 and they just generate the output。Okay， however， the corrupted parties。

They're going to output that adverary is going to output on their behalf。

 and he can choose whatever he wants to output。 his goal is actually to output the honest party's inputs。

 if he could。So he is going to choose an arbitrary function of his view。 What is his view。The inputs。

Of the corrupted parties。And anything he learned during the protocol。

 so the adversary on behalf of the corrupted parties will send any function of his choice of the corrupted party's input and the messages they sent and received and maybe if they had private randomness that they used the corrupted parties used through the protocol。

 also the randomness， so anything the corrupted parties saw during the protocol。

 whatever he learned from these dec corruptted parties， he can choose to offer any function of that。

In particular， you can just up the entire thing。You can say， okay， look what I learned here。

 here's the T inputs。 Here's the randomness used by these Tea parties。

 Here all the messages sent all the messages they received。

Maybe that will all of a sudden pop out the input of venonous party。And the security says it won't。

 in the following sense， whatever the adversary output there。So whatever he learned。

A simulator can output 2。 So what is the ideal game in the ideal game， Actually。

 there's no interaction。 We each tell our input to some ideal functionality， some trusted party。

 and the trusted party just sends everybody the output Y F of Xon of T N。😊，So nobody sees anything。

 nobody， every party just got why， that's it。😡，The adversary can output an arbitrary function of the inputs。

Or that the simulator can output an arbitrary function of the inputs of the corrupted parties。

 which is what he sees。And what he got from the ideal functionality。 So why？F of xon of to X M。Now。

 of course， if the output revealed someone's input。What can you do。

 And then that person should not participate in the protocol if he knows the output。

 if the output says， oh， reveal the input of party I。 Well。

 party I output is gonna to be revealed by， by definition。We're not going to protect that party。😡。

The output may reveal information about our input because it's a function of the input。

We say that's okay to be revealed， but nothing else。Okay， any questions about the definition。So look。

 this is a bit weird because the similars job basically lets see。

It's good to think of the adversaries and adversary that just outputs everything he saw in the real protocol。

 So he actually sent the messages he received from all the parties。

 the messages he sent to all the parties， its internal randomness。

 And let's say the adverary just sends the damn thing， the entire thing。😊，Now。

 the poor simulator's job， he needs to generate something like that too。

 because this distribution should look like the real。😡。

So he basically needs to make up messages sent to the corrupted parties by the honestist parties and make up messages that these parties sent and all of this he should kind of make up without actually participating in the protocol。

In a way， that Dpa will look the same。That means he didn't learn anything beyond the output。

 That's kind of the definition that he didn't learn anything that whatever he learned。

 he could have simulated。But the way， does this definition ring a bell to anyone。We we， yeah。使分中。

Exactly zero knowledge。 Exactly。 What did we say zero knowledge。

 There was actually interaction going on where the prover tri toagon uses the verifier that actes in the language that he knows the coloring to a graph。

So theres back and forth and back and forth。 And what was the guarantee that a simulator who。

Did not participate in It did not even talk to a prover。

 He can somehow generate this transcript on his own without knowing anything。

 except the fact that X is in the language。This is similar。

 We're saying the simulator actually didn't talk with anyone。Okay， so you guys all have inputs。

 We jointly send back for at the end， you found you computed F of your inputs。

 let's say that your average grade。Now I a simulator and given your average grade and I need to somehow simulate this entire communication。

Like the communication of all of you guys。And moreover。

 even if a bunch of you colluded and tried to learn， okay。

 I get the information of the colluding or the corrupted parties。

 I get their grades and I get the average grade and given that I need to kind of simulate the rest。😡。

Okay， so that's basically the definition。And again， we're considering honest， but curious。

 One can define in a very similar way。 the more interesting definition， which is。

 why would the adversary be honest， He'll be malicious。😊，And he he's malicious。😊。

If A is malicious in the real world， he doesn't have to follow the protocol。

And then what he does here， it's not true that all parties will honestly run。

 The honest party will honestly run， and the militious party will send whatever the de he wants。

And again， we want to say that you can simulate， even if the adversary deviates from the protocol。

We're not going to cover that case today。😡，but it is what we know MPCs。

 even BGW gave an MPC that covers the militia setting。But that's not what we're gonna see today。

 today， for simplicity， we're just going talk about honest curious。Okay， as I said。

 there's a generic way of upgrading with crypto by adding kind of zero knowledge proofs。

 like basically， you know， you send something and then you give zero knowledge proof that you send the right。

 the right thing。 That's in the nutshell。Yeah。What F。Like， what does S get to see， Oh。

 what does S get to C， Okay， yeah， sure， yeah， So the simulator， good things。 the simulator he gets。

 So the adversary corrupts Tea parties。The simulator gets to see the input of these tea parties because they're corrupted。

 So he's like corrupting them。 He gets to see their inputs。

 And then he gets to see the output of the ideal functionality。 That's it。

So he gets to see the output because everybody learns the output， So he gets to learn the output。

 And of course， he gets to learn the input of the corrupted parties because he corrupted them。

That's all we learned。So like of course he should learn that， like if Tea parties collude。

 they learn each other's input， there's nothing can do from preventing people to tell each other their input。

 So if T of us collllude and tell each other's input and we learn the output。Then yeah。

 we learn that， but we don't learn anything beyond that。Questions。I。Yeah， good。 So now here's， okay。

 So the what I'm going to show you， Take any number of parties in。

Take take any number T of corruptions。 But today， what we're going to see for the BGW protocol。

re I'm going to give you a protocol。Where the number of corruptions is the majority are honest。

 So for now what I'm going to show you， fix any n and can be threeN can be constant。

 it can be big and。So the BGW protocol。Is the following so thick？Any number of parties in。And N T。

 which is smaller than n over2。Okay， so this is only secure。😮。

're assuming we have an honest majority， the majority of the players are honest。Let me just mention。

 we actually know how to deal with dishonest majority as well。 But for that。

 we need to put crypto on top。I'm going to show you an MPC protocol with no cryptography。 I mean。

 it assumes secure channels。 but beyond that， there's going to be no crypto involved。

But if you want information there security， then you need honest majority。Okay。

 so the number of corruptions is less than half of the players。We have another protocol GMW。

 which is due to Goldri and Kali and Vi Z， where they put cryptography。 It uses cryptography。

It can tolerate any。And here it's not the same distribution。

 it's just computationally indistuishable。But for today， I want to show you kind of very elegant。

 I think the B G Wubling is a very， very elegant protocol and also use a secret chair。

 So I thought I'll show you that one。😊，Okay。So， yeah， so fix n， fix T。

 And I'm going to show you how to and， O， so fix。Fix n and T， and fix。Any function， F。And N input。

Okay， fix f。Fix x1。F to X， N for the parties。Okay， you think can think of each one。 First implicit。

 Let's think each party gets 1 bit。 It can get many bits。 So you can think of it's。

It's just for simplicity。 Okay， you can， if they get more bits than。ok。Let's say that' get outs。Okay。

 okay， now the protocol。Any questions before we start the protocol。Good， okay。

 so heres how the protocol will。We'll go。 So it actually consists of three stages。Stage 1。

Is what's called the secret sharing stage。What'm not going to do each party。😮。

I's going to secret share their own input。Okay， so。For every eye。Party I is going to choose。Ponomial。

 in this case， it's L polynoms。 It has L bits。 So I don't want to。

 I'm going to write it for L equals  one， but I can say for general L。

 So he's going chew for every I。 party I chooses。Sample。So basically， he's going to share his input。

But in a way that's secure against de corruptionrups。 So even if's tea。

 because there are de corruptionrups。So even if an adversary sees T of the shares。

 he learns nothing about the input。 So how's this done， you。Question。Oh， so you sample random。

Degree T， polynomial。GI。Such that G I and 0 is equal to X I。 Now， if you have L， example G I 1。

 G I2 to G I L。 Okay， so again， I'm going to think of it and my head is L equals to one。

For simplicity of notation。And then you give each party one share， so send。😡，P I， P J， sorry。

 said partying。 So for every。For every party， Jay， including yourself。Send share。 So G I of J。

2 party day。Okay， so。This is a GI。Is a random polynomial there  zero is my secret？😡。

You guys are N parties to the first， I'm going to give G and1， G and2 up to G and N。 Okay。

 so the think of the GI is over。Like a field。Where everything addition and multiplication are not P。

 where P is going to be bigger than N， because I need to share it to end parties。O。So， now， note。

Because it's a degree T， even if Tea parties。Colllude and， look at my shares。

 They don't learn anything about my secret value。 That's what Chamil's secret sharing scheme promised us。

Okay， so so far so good。 I'm not。 I didn't like the adary C T shares from his perspective。

 but just random random field elements have nothing to do with my secret value。Okay。

 so now we secret sharedd all the inputs。 so now all the inputs to F are secret sharedd。😊。

At this point， I don't care which input originally was mine or which input originally was yours。

 Okay， now all the inputs are secret shared。 we can forget who owned originally the inputs。

 We're not going to use them anymore。😡，Okay， now what we're going to do。

 we're going to start computing on the shares。Yeah。Oh， yeah。 but I don't care anymore。

 I don't need to remember X1。So what I mean is you， you can erase it because it's shared already。

 Yeah， so if I started with X1， once I seek secret shared X1， I can， I don't need X1 anymore。

 I only need the shares。 We can forget that we owned our X I。 Now， everything from now on， will just。

😊，Kind of have to do with the shares。Okay， so now each input bit is shared。And if I had L inputs。

 I secret share these L inputs。Okay， so now again， nobody cares if I had L or one。

 The point is we have all the inputs are secret shared。Okay。Okay， so that's the secret sharing phase。

Stage 2。Is the computation phase。So now we actually want to compute that to function F。Now， let's。

 we're going to think。 So we want to compute to F。 Let's assume with our loss of generality。

 So without。Lots of venity。F consists。Of addition， Mark P。Mulipplication。My pe。

And multiplication by scalarrs。InFP。So let's assume this is also genetic because this set is complete。

So we know that any circuit， we can think of F as a circuit。

 We we represent the function as a circuit。 Usually。

 we can assume that it's addition and multiplication mod 2。

But we can also assume that its additional multiplication map P。😊，And the reason is that， well。

 additional multiplication mod2， if you just have01s， then if you do 0，1 mod 2 or 0，1 mod p。

 it's exactly the same thing。 It's just in 0，1。 It's always0。

 unless both of them are one in which case you get a  one。Addition moduleto is not like addition。😊。

Addition mark P is not like Ed mark 2， but。We went over this already once at some point。

 in some context。But you can go from addition mod2 to addition mod P by just doing like a plus B。

 mod  two。 if you want to do this， you just do a plus B mod P。 but then you may have two here。

So you need to go to  zero。 So you subtract to A B。

So it's true only if both of them are one and then you want to go zero。So this might P。Is the same。

 So you can implement this by just doing a pluss B mod P and then minus scalar two times a times B mod P。

 So with all of genity， we can think of these as our operations。Okay。

 and now I'm going to show you how to do these operations on the shares。

 That's basically what we're going to do。Any， any questions。Okay。So。One thing， one in。

 So remember when we share our input。Basically in the input level。😊，We have， we shared a random each。

Each input wire。😮，Is a random degree T polynomial that under0 is the actual value。Right。

 then it's random。 That's important。Why is it important that it's random。

 because Because it's random， If T gets together， they learn nothing。As。

 if the polymial was not random， had some structure， then maybe teacherss would reveal information。

 So it's important that this polynomial is random。 When Shamir did a secret sharing。

 it's important that the G。That used for secret chain is a random degree T polynomial。Okay。Okay。

Then what we're going So now we're going to see how to compute on chairs。 given so we have shares。

 So let's say we want to there are some gate。G。And let's say we have shares of this value。

 Maybe this values is a。And we have shares， we have like GA。I have G and 1， you have Gen，2， gen，3。

 gen，4 and so on and so forth。 but the value of this wire is a， nobody knows the value。

But it has to value A。 and there's some poomial， a random polyomial G that are zeros a。

 but we each have G and I for Part I。And now suppose there's another input y or B。😡，And again。

 we have， there's a random。Plynomial G。That on0 is the value B。

 and it's a random degree T polynomial。😡，What， we want to get。😮，Is a random degree T polynomial。诶。

Okay， if it's plus， we want to get a random degree polynomial that is a plus B。

 If it's multiplication， you want to get a random degree T polynomial。 That is v of a times B。

RightAnd if it's multiplied by scalar。Similarly。ok。And the invariant we're going to keep。

 And that's very important。If。The input chairs。Correspond。To a random like it should。

A completely random。Dgree T。Polynomial。G， such that g of0 is equal to the value of the wire。Then。

We want the output here。😮，To be of the same， not just to be correct。To also correspond。To a random。

Degree T polynomial。Tpotnomial G， so that D and0 is equal to the value of output wire。O。Now。

 if we manage to do that。Okay， so that's what were we're going to focus on。

 How do we get from shares from the inputs。To kind of get chair of the next level wires and the next wire and the next wire and the next wire。

 and each time we'll get a share a Poroma that's completely random。

But has's the correct value of the wire。If we manage to do that。

 that's kind of where all the hard part will be， but if we manage， then we can go to stage three。

Because then you can all work up to the apple wire。And in the output wire， we share a random。

Degree teeth。Polynomial， and then what we do once then what we do， we send。The shares。Of output wire。

So then we send all our shares to each other。We send all our shares， and we recompute。

Well once we have T plus1 chairs， we can recompute the polynomial， evaluate around 0。

 and that's what we output， yeah。嗯嗯。看到了。It， yeah， it can depend。U the barrier end。规了方诉话。嗯哼。Because。

 okay。诶。O。Let me actually， I'm going to actually prove it。 you write maybe the way I wrote it。

 Maybe there is a way to construct a protocol that will not be secure， but I'm going actually。

Keep this as an idea， but we actually show that you're gonna not gonna learn anything。 Okay。

 so kind of by construction， I'm going show that， yeah。Yeah， just because the randomness。

It's a shirt from the random。合种意白我。It's actually like that means that it's so random up。

That's mean that you can't cover。Okay， let me let me repeat what what the concern was。

 The concern was the following。The output， this。And its own is around polynomial。

But it's not independent。 like this is random。 This is random。 If you only look at this。

 it's a random degree T polynomial， that's un0 Z。 If you only look at this。

 it's a random degree polymial。 But if you look at both of them or this and this。

They're not random together， like this can depend on this。😡，So the marginal is random。😮，But together。

 it's not random。So the concern was， oh， okay， the fact that the marginal is random doesn't mean。

 but I see either adversary。😮，See T shirts here and T shirt is here。

Maybe somehow you can learn something。I think that was when you share all the dancechairs。

 maybe you can learn something。That was kind of the it's a good point。 yeah。

If we really need independence， we can still be randomize。 You can re randomize。 You can write。

 So we'll see， actually， we will be randomize。I'll tell you。

But that's actually going to be part of the protocol。 We will random。O， at least some， not always。

 will we re randomization will be one big， one element in the， in the computation。Okay。

 but this is kind of the the structure is clear。 I'm gonna is。

 we'll see how to get this in a way that you satisfy security。 But is is the structure clear。

 So your secret chair， you compute on shares。 I didn't tell you how。

 but there's a way to compute on shares。 and then you reconstruct the secret。

 But everybody revealing the share。 and you get the output by just computing the output polynomial computing it of 0。

 that's the output。Okay， so now for the rest of class today。

 we're going to talk about computing on chairs。Okay。So。啊。First。

 I'm going to first show you how to do this。😮，When the function F that we're trying to compute is a linear function。

That's very easy。And then what we're going to do， we're going to use the path that we can compute securely linear functions to do arbitrary functions。

Okay， so let's first start with linear functions。Linear function。

 the nice thing is that this all computation part requires no interaction， actually。The the step 2。

 which is， the computation phase， no instruction whatsoever。 So here's how it's done。

So if F is linear。Then you， we only， there's only addition gates or multiplication by scalers。So。

Let's say we have。Addition exactly as here。 So I dont。 So how do we do addition。

The idea is very simple。Well'll define G A plus B， this polynomial。😮，Well just be。By definition。

We're going to define it to be G。Plus。GB。So I originally got share I party I， me party I。

 I got share， share I of this。😡，And share eye of this。I'm going to compute share I of this。😡，So。

 G A plus B。I that's to each party I， what it does， it computes this to be。G。Of I。GB of I。

So I take my two input， my two shares with input。I add them up， mightp。

What's nice about this polynomial GAB？Is。Or this polynomial。

 So the point of this polynomial is that G A plus B and0 is just by definition G A 0 plus G B。

And zero， which is exactly plus me。So good。And what did I learn nothing， I just。

 it's a computation I did with my own chairs。So I did this locally。 of course。

 I didn't learn anything。Okay， but I managed now all the addition gates I can do。

 Like I I meant I do this for every edition gate。Good。Now。

 what if I have a multiplication gate with a scalar。 So now let's think。I want to do C some scalar。

 known scalar。 We all know scalar C。Times G A， yeah。are we drink all these。Marp。

 everything is smartp， I'm assuming。So is acts also mode？For like like back are those also okay。

The X I in reality， they're probably going to be just zero1s because。You know， we， we say， I mean。

 it can be M P， actually， but it seems like。Right， it's linear not P。 I'm only。 you're right。

 You're right。 This I'm considering functions that are linear mod P。

 So you're saying now linear mod2， linear not P， but that will be enough later to get arbitrary functions。

 So now I'm going to just show you linear mod P， which indeed seems like very， very weak because。

P was chosen by our has nothing to do with the function。 The function， you know。

 P is such that it's larger in the number of parties。 It's in who cares about computation mod P。

 but it's， this is a building block。 Okay， we'll then use it to get arbitrary computations。Okay。

So when we want to multiply by scalar。The function we're gonna。 So yeah， so I guess。

If we want to multiply， let's say A， the shares A by a scale or C， we want the secret is going to be。

😡，C times A， everybody knows C。Nobody knows A。 That's a secret。

 We're going to define it to be C times G of a。So again， for party I， what he will do？G， C， A。

 C times A of I is just going to be C。Scalar times G A of I， which she had。And again。

 note that on zero。That。G C and0 is just by definition C1 G of0， which is C time A。

 So exactly what we wanted multiplying the secret by a Taylor。😊，That's it， so basically。😮。

Party had for each。Input wire。Their share， which is the polynomial and eye。😡，And using their share。

 they just compute， compute， compute， compute。 That's it。And at the end， we reach the top。

 We reveal the shares。Okay， and it's， of course， it's less than。中。It's less than revealing like。

 so what did the malicious parties learn？So the militious parties， they learned。The T shares。

They learned the output chairs。You write it。Okay， so what did the malicious parties learn。

 They learned， of course， the。Inputs of the malicious party， the corrupted parties。

 they get together。 They learn their own inputs。But what did they learn beyond their own inputs。

 What did they learn from the output， and then they learn the shares of the output。

That's all they learned because everything in them， they didn't interact beyond that。

So I got my input chairs。Everybody got their input chairs。Which。Okay， so， sorry， let me do it slowly。

 So what is that， What did the diversity you learn。The address learned， well。

 he learned X I1 up to X I T of the militia。 So let's think of I1。Up to IT are the corrupted parties。

O， the simulator learned that， too。 We gave it to the simulator。

They also learned the shares of everyone。 Everyone sent them shares。Right， like T shirts。

So they also learn shares。 But what are these shares。 I'm gonna see， I'm gonna now be the simulator。

 Okay， so let's， let me simulate the protocol for you。 So first， I see， okay。

 so what does the simulator do， The simulator。 Okay， He sees this。 Great。 Thank you。😊，Next。

I get chairs from party。 I I each party gives me a share。

 like each party gives each of these party a share。What is S supposed to do。

 He's supposed to simulate this。 How will he simulate the shares that the parties receive any idea。

Yeah。Random， exactly， because they're distributed randomly。

Because it's secure against the secret chair secure against team malicious parties。Againt team yeah。

 so yeah， so here's going for each eye。He's going to。

Pretend that all the other end parties send this party I completely random shares。😡，Okay。

 so now you got the random fears。Then what he's going to do， he's going， he can， okay， then he gets。

 he needs to simulate。 So now every party supposedly computes their shares， right？Okay then。

Every party sends the。In the output， they say they send the shares of the output wire。

How is he gonna， So how does he come how does he simulate the output for， you know。

 for these tea parties， he can be honest。 He's like， okay， I got these shares。Random， whatever。

 But he's just going to use them。 And he's going to send that is the output。Okay， like honestly。

But what now， he needs to。But the other parties now send him， send the shares of the output wire。

How do we simulate that？And the answer of the way we simulate that。

Is we're going to simulate it to be random。Such that it agrees with the degree t polynomial with the correct output wire。

 with the correct output value， What is the correct output value。

 the whatever it is F of so at this point the simulator also gets。

 so the simulator gets X I1 up to X I T， and it also gets F of x1 of x n from the ideal functionality。

😡，And what he's going to do， hes going now he needs to generate he needs to simulate like what the adverary is。

Becauseuse that says， oh， look what I learned。 I learned all the shares that I received。

 and I learned the shares that everybody sent me of the upper wire。 I learned all that。😊。

That may reveal little information and like， no no， it doesn't。 I can learn that too。

 Let me tell you what you learned。For the input chairs。Of all the parties。They just look uniform。

Together， everything， just uniform， uniform， uniform， uniform， completely。 That's a distribution。

And then for the output， for the reconstruction。I output wire。

What he's going to do so he can compute the reconstruction for these tea parties。

 assuming that that's the input put they got， which are random。 fine， He does that。

Now he gets like key points of a polynomial。😡，And he knows the output value。Because that's given。

 So he also， so basically， what he knows is the output。Like an output polynomial and point i1。😡，I。

That looks random。But then he also knows。You you have zero。And one more point。

 which is he gets the ideal functionality。😡，With T plus one points。

You can actually compute the entire polynomial。Once he computes an entire polynomial。

 he knows what to send for each honest party J， the polynomial and point J。

So that's how he's going to simulate。The reconstruction phase。He knows the output。

 the output on point G1 up to GIT。😡，Assuming he got these random shares。Because anyway。

 in the real protocol， you got just random shares。 You've really uniform。

 So let's say this is what he got。And anyway， this the linear computation he does locally。

 locally on the shares。 There was no communication and the computation because it was just linear。

 So each party does it alone。 So he computes his shares until he gets the output。 This is output。😊。

T points and a degree to T polynomial is not enough to reconstruct the entire polynomial。

 but T plus1 is enough。And he gets the output on 0 because that's the output of the the MPC。

 And we assume in the ideal that the similar gets that from the ideal functionality。

 once he has T plus1 points。Then he knows what the share is。

 He can simulate the shares of any party J。 The share of any party J is just G out and point J。

 So that's what he kind of。😊，That's kind of how he imagines what party each honest party sends in the reconstruction phase。

And that view is identical to the， to the real view。Questions。Yeah implicit。It didn't happen yet。

Good here there was no re randomization。 So indeed， nothing that。

 So here there was no re randomization the， the。The the G's， as we go along， of course。

 very much depend。 This G is actually this G plus this G。 So they're not。

 they're very dependent on another。 but still， as I just argued， you can learn。

 I simulated everything。I showed how the simulator can simulate everything the adversary saw。

 He can simulate with only knowing their inputs and outputs。So no re randomization yet。

 The re randomization will happen when you go to multiplication gates。So actually。

 it seems like we're very close。 We just need to handle multiplication gates。😊。

So we handled addition。 We have it。 We handled multiplication by scalar。

 And then we only also need to handle multiplication not to。That part is going be the messiest part。

 That's where things become complicated。And that's what we're gonna do。

 We're gonna to use the randomization。Okay。Any， any questions。Okay。Okay， so。

 but I just want to pause for a second and note already you've seen a secure MPC。😡。

For computing functions that are linear mod B，2 mod B。 Now， indeed。

 that seems contracttri because that's kind of the protocol had to be whatever， but。

That's what we showed so far。After the break， we're going to see how to use this。

To implement the multi， to do multiplication gates securely。 And that part will require interaction。

 So so far， the computation phase was not interactive。Only the reconstruction was， I mean。

 in fact of just one round。 Everyone share send their shares and the。Stage one required interaction。

 again， just one round。 So this protocol first there was around everybody does secret chairs。

 send chairs。Nothing， nobody talks that each person on its own does you know， the computation。

 Then everybody shares send the shares of the output。So it's just really two rounds， send。

Input chairs， quiet， to a in， send output chairs， that's it。2。W a。是一个这个。Yeah。

 you need to do cause yeah， cause the the ice secret part is really annoying because the thing is。

 okay， we need a secret chair。 What if you didn't get a share for me， Now， you wait forever。

 What if I send everybody shares， but I didn't send you a share。😊，So they continue， they compute。

 they reconstruct。 And now you're like， and then maybe I send you a share from my reconstruct。

 I don't know。 And you're like， wait is this the reconstruct， Is this your input。

 It just creates a lot of annoyingness， so。Word， yeah， its。

 it just cleans every because then you don't know。 Are you。

 Is this corresponding to the input to the first round on second round and the adversary can control the how fast or so he send the messages。

 And that creates a bunch of annoyances。O， okay， so let's take a couple minute break。

 And then for the rest of class today， we'll do the multiplication gates。We're in a break。

We're not just quiet。Okay， so let's continue。 Okay。

 so we're left with just showing how to compute multiplication gates。 So now we have。A random。

Deeggr T polynomial that on 0。Outputs a， and each party I has G and I。Similarly， we have shares of B。

 So G B is a degree T polynomial that an input outputs B in Part I has G and I。

And we want to compute。包括。So we want a computer polynomial。Kind of G A B， degree T polynomial。

 a random degree T polynomial that an input， that an input 0。I'll puts a times to me。Better go。

How do we do that？So。I mean， it's very tempting to say， oh， that before， you know。

 things were easy worked well， let's try to continue our luck。And to define this to be， G times GB。

Now， one thing that works is indeed， G A B and and 0。Is G A 0 times G B and 0。

 which is indeed A times B。 Great。 That's what we wanted。What is the problem though with this idea？

Exactly， if this was degree T and this is degree T， this is degree 2 T。Now。

 degree2 T is very problematic because， well。You know， we will grow and grow。

 And the promise of its a degree，2 T。 Now we need 2 T plus one chairs。And eventually more。

 but we don't have that many parties。 You know， eventually。

 the number of parties we're going run out of parties。So that's no good。 Sees like a bad idea。

Nevertheless。This is going to be， we're going to use this idea。How are we going to use this idea？

Because it's true that it's degree。 So let's look at this polynomial。It's true that it's degree2 T。

But。Still not random and 0。 It's 8 times  B， which is what we want。So if we write this if we write。X。

 let's write it。 It's sum H I， X to the I。 I goes from1 to 2 T。At the zero term， which is a times B。

Yeah， it's a2 T。 I just wrote it a 2 T degree polynomial。What we want to do is kind of。

 here's an idea。 Let's just front this phlannomial。Let's is there a way。To go from G。

 which is too big。Two， let me call it a nu， let me call it Gha。Of A B。Which is some H。

 I goes from one to T。X I。Plus， A B。 So basically， what I want to do， I want to get rid of the。Coics。

Of H from T plus one of to2 T。That's what I want to do。Now， you could ask how am I going to do this。

So actually， I'm going to show you how to do this。 We can do this。

 How using secure computation for linear functions。😊，Okay， so I'm going to show you how given。😮。

Shares。Of these。 So given these share， given these shares。😊，I can。Go to these shares。😮。

By doing a secure computation with linear functions。Chrisra， I'm going to show you how to do that。😮。

But before I do that。I want to say that's actually， if I just do that。

 So I'm going to show you how to do that。 So if， if you believe me that you can do this。 we did that。

It still won't be good。 And the reason why it won't be good。Is because。Because this is a degree。

2 T polynomial。It's not clear that the Hs are not going to be random anymore， actually。Right。

 it's like if you think you take degree T and another degree T， it's like a。

And most of these two things， this is not going to look random。Now， if you just trunccate。Then。

 and you， and you give。Like all the parties。This truncated shares of this truncated version。

I don't know how to prove it。 not only， I don't know， I think。It's not secure。

 It's not necessarily the case that Tea parties learn nothing。

Because this is not a random polynomial。So it's not true。😮。

Necessarily that by seeing T shares of this polynomial， the shrunet polynomial， you learn nothing。

Question。So the way the actual shares come。I G。Yes， this is just G A B and 。12 with then。

 So let's say we can compute G。呀。You' you saying there's also a way to compute its actual values at some point？

I'm going to show you how secure multipart computation。Where。Each of us has GA B andI。😡。

And after we do this little secure computation， each of us has G hat A B， and I。戴错人问的时友。

And in that thing， you learn nothing。Except for JB and I。That's what I'm going to show you。

But I'm going to say even。I know you're like， wait， really， how do you do that。

 I'm gonna show how to do that。 But first of myself， supposeupp I succeed didn and do that。

 It's still not good enough。Because T。Adversarial parties that share。GA B hat on1，2 up T。

 Let's say the first team。 It's not clear that they learn nothing。

Because this is no longer a random polynomial。It's uponous with some structure。

Cause it came as a multiplication of  two degree T hoials。

And the fact that it's no longer completely random is not clear that from Thirs， you learn nothing。

 Defitely， I don't know how to simulate anymore。So what we're going to do before showing you the magic of how to go from shares of this to share to the truncated。

The first thing I'm going to do。Is show you how to， how to re randomize the polynomial。Okay， so。

What we're going to do？Is first thing， now we have a degree 2 T polynomial。

 We actually computed the chairs of a degree 2 T polynomial。This degree。We're going to trun。

 we don't want to grow， grow， grow。 We're going to truncate， but for now， we all have shares of GAB。

😡，Fll party I。Has B A Bni。Okay。Now I， the next thing I'm going to do is I want to re randomize this polynomial。

 make it completely a random degree to T polynomial。But on 0， it's still baby。Okay， so I want to get。

 I want to convert this。To GAB。Plus， R。Where R is a random。Degree T polynomial。That are0。A zero。

 so I dont want I I want this to still and the0， I want it to be A B。

But now I want this to be completely random。 So it completely randomizes it。我三。Exactly。

 ours going to be uniform satisfying this condition。 And I want shares for that。 So now， party I。

He has a share of GAD。Aye。What I want party I is to have a share of GAB。I， plus Ara。Now。

 this is a good polynomial。 It's a random degree，20 polynomial。That on zero， A B。

 And now I can do my trick。But how do I get here？Exactly right。

We're going to do secret sharing of the zero point of the zero number。The secret is 0。

So how do we do it？Each party will share zero。So the way this So， okay。

 so here's the re randomization set。That what。Yes， were indeed。 so far。 Yeah， well， also， by the way。

 also before we use the fact that they're honest because。In the reconstruction phase。

Some of them can send malicious things。So how do you know exactly， but actually。

I mentioned last week that we can actually reconstruct， even if some of the shares are malicious。

 not half ti over three。 So even if one third of the shares are malicious， we can still reconstruct。

Actually even more。 we can reconstruct， We can reconstruct it more。 we。

 we can still reconstruct not all the way to half， but we can still reconstruct。

 even if some of the shares are malicious。But the problem is that the secret sharing。

 we assume everybody' is honest。So now people behave maliciously in the secret sharing phase。

 it's a problem。But there is a thing called verifiable secret sharing， which。

Can handle even if some of the the parties are malicious。 So there is a way of upgrading things。

 But yeah， we didn't。 it's actually really in beautiful things。 But， you know， we were。

 I don't have infinite time， so。😊，Okay， so here's the re randomization step。So each party。

For every eye。Party I。Choooses。Random。Deggr T。Polynomial， let's call it R。And since。Each。Party PG。

R I。安静。Okay， now， this is a completely random polynomial， but maybe I'm the malicious party。

 So I know this polynomial。 So it's not like， I can， you know， so each party needs to do it。

 So each party to make sure also the honest parties are contributing。😊。

Each party chooses a completely random polynomial， degree polynomial， degree22。

Because I want to re randomize the G A B， which is the great2ti。To the random degree。

 20 polynomial we'll call R and gives each party J this polynomial at 0。 J。😡。

And then the re randomized polynomial now we'll take PA B plus。Our I， I goes from 110。

 This is the re randomized polynomial。We are randomization。Of PA B。And now note every party， Jay。

Has a share of this。 They have P A B of J because they had it before。

 and they have HR J because party I gave it to them。And this is completely random， yes。Yeah， oh。

 sorry。 I didn't write it。 Thank you。 Yeah， choose a run degree。 I yeah， sorry。Such that。

R I of 0 is 0， definitely。Yeah， because otherwise I change the secret here。

 I want the secret here to still be A B。Okay， so now I have a completely random。Dgree2 T function。

That un0 is A B。Okay， and note again， I want to emphasize。

 why do we need all the parties to do this R， Why not just have， let's choose one party to do it。

 Maybe party 7。Exactly， we don't know who the cheateetah is。What if party7 is the one corrupted？😡。

Then if he adds it， well， he knows this。 he's not randomizing anything He can undo the R。

 He knows the entire R。So we need to make sure that an honest party is doing it。

And we don't know the honest party。 And so everybody does it。我这。Okay， you can。 you can let， yeah。

 you don't have you right。 You can let more， Yeah， T plus1 do it。Indeed。Okay， great。Okay。

 so we re randomize。 Now we just need to tru it。So now this is our new polynomial。

 Let's focus on tru he this。So we each have a share。But the Rituti。

We want to just get a share of the same polylannomial。

 but just kind of getting rid of all the coefficients of you know， degree highery。

So how is that done。Okay。So we're left with truncating。Okay。So let me go back。

 I'll go back to this notation。 I'll just show you how to truncate a polynomial。 Of course。

 well need to truncate a randomized polynomial。 but just avoid having too much notation。

 Let me show you how to go。 Suppose you have shared or in general。 Suppose you have G。

Which is some H I X I。I goes from1 to T plus some sque S。20。And suppose that party， Jay。He knows。

G at point G。Okay， I'm going to show you a protocol。😮，Where at the， where。Let's do load by G hack。

The sum of H X I plus S I goes from1 to T。 This is the truncated one。

And I'm going to show you a protocol。😊，That the parties learn nothing except for。

Party J learns G hatt of G。And nothing else。Which is exactly what we wanted。

Once he has the truncated protocol we're done， so we have shares and this is random。

jihad is a random because we randomized， it's a completely random degree T polynomial that has the correct secret。

 the correct wire value。So this is the only thing we need。So how do we do this？Okay， so the idea is。

Computation， the point of this computation is a linear computation might be。So， let me explain。

So the inputs of the part， the inputs。A G1。Up to G。

The shares that's in this protocol that I'm going to show you now。

Each party has the input is the share。And the output。I's going be。Ficated chips。Yeah。

 so I want to show you a protocol where the parties can take。

Their share of the degree T polynomial that was already re randomized。

 So I don't need to worry about truncating and the output is going to be。的。

Shares of the truncated polynomial。And I'm going to show you how you can do that while learning nothing。

Besides what you want to learn。😡，呀。Okay， so how do we do that， How' is this done。

 So here's the observation。The observation is， what is G1。Up to G N。You can think of this。

It's nothing but the vanro mode matrix n。It was zero， sorry。Yeah。Let's H 0， H1 up to H。2 T。So。

This is the polynomial。 Okay， some H， including the0。Now， the vmona matrix is just like。You know。

 it's 1，1 to the 2 to the 3 to the4，2 to the second。 So the vder mod matrix。Just do this like Im。

Point J is， it's J to the0， J to the1。Up to J to the。Let me do N。I one think of this as， okay。

 G to the。2 tea。And this is also。To， yeah， there is like two T plus one of to2 T plus one。

So this is really just the Bmodo matrix。Apply to age。Okay， what about thejihas this？

Is equal to same V applied to H0， H1 up to H T。And zeros。So let me make it also。

 I want to make everything22 T plus1。Wait， one second。 No， no， no， no， no， no， no， I messed up。

 Sorry， this V， I go from sorry， this V goes for all the parties， right。

 So we have from one to up to n。So let's just think of like n。Sorry， let me。Pee myself here。

Let me do it here。 Okay， so。These are the inputs。 What are these inputs。It's just。

Look at the vderon matrix， which is， let me think of it n by n。Where in J， So that's for a party J。

 he gets1 J， J squared。 I want to make it up to n。 So J N -1。

 because I want this to be a squared matrix。Okay， so this is kind of the shares of party J。

 and we multiply it by H0， H1。H2 T。And the rest is two zeros。Okay， so this， the point is that。

G of one up to G N。Or maybe I wrote it。G1。GN。Is the。The v mod matrix times this H， H 0， H1。

Up to H2 T with zeros。Yeah， so far so good。 So we just。

 when you multiply this by this is exactly the share of party。

 That's exactly the polynomial end point J。 So that's the share of party J。😊，Okay。

 now what similarly。You can say the same thing about Gca 1。Up to G hat。the vmonder matrix。

 But now an H0 up to H T， H T。 the rest are 0， because these are truncated。Now， I want to go here。

 I want to get to this。😡，What do I start with this。What I need to do to these shares。

Like the function I want to compute。I would like to compute。V inverse to undo this V。

 So I would like to compute V inverse on the input and G1。Up to G N。Now I get this。

Then I want to get rid of eight， like the last T coefficients。So I multiplied by a projection matrix。

 This projection matrix is just like identity 1，1，1， only after T， and the rest are 0。😊。

For when you take this and you multiply it。😮，And the diagonal， this is up to T。Or I guess。

 T plus one， because。Including H0。So when you multiply this by this projection， you get this。😡。

And then。You applied for。Toge。Again， so。all these， I know it shareded。 but if I had all these shares。

And I want to get to these shares。What I would do if I had all of them， I would compute the inverse。

😡，To get this。That's linear because V it's a matrix。 So it's a linear computation。

I would apply the projection matrix， which is just identity but up to Ht。

 so the first t plus 1 are 111 and the diagonal the rest are zeros。Toget this。

And then I apply the undermonda matrix to get this。So the function I'm computing is this function。

I take this function of the sharears。And when I get back are these。Now what's tonight？

This is a matrix。 Matrix is a linear function。This is public， all these are public。

So I need a computer linear function on my shares。But， we did linear functions。

So let me remind you how this is done。 We have linear function of the shares。 What do we do。 Well。

 we forget that these are shares。 We share our shares。😊，So again， forget that these are shares。

 right， These are inputs。This is a linear function。And we welcome compute the output。 No， by the way。

 here， we each have a different output。 It's our joint output。I have this output。

 you have this output。 we don' want to share out them。 Okay， but， what do we do。

Each of us secret chairs are shared。We each compute this linear function locally。😡。

Because we learned the linear functions we can compute locally。😡，And then。

But this linear function has n outputs。Output J should go only to party J。So now the output J。

 I send that my share of that wire only to party J， I'm not going to send the party to another party。

 so now basically I have n output wires。😡，Because I have here N output wires and。Alpha Y or G。😮。

I'm going to share Everyone shares the share of Al Y or J， only to party J。

And then he can reconstruct Jhad。So let me just kind of， again， what's the idea with multiplication。

 you just multiply the two input wires， the two polynomials， you get degree 20。

That's problematic for two reasons， A degree2 T。So it blows up。 beat's not even random。

First thing we do， we re randomize it by everybody sending kind of a polynomial of you know。

 shares of polynomial that of degree 2 T that0 that are 0，0。 So homogeneous polynomial。

Now we have a randomly tooth0 polynomials。😡，What we need， what we're going to do。

 we're going to truncate the last that polynomial to B degree exactly T。How do we trunate we notice。

That going from these shares to the truncated cheers。Simply linear air function。

And then we know that linear functions we already learn how to do securely before the break。

So then we do the linear function securely。 And now we're after that。

 we're going to be left with shares of completely random degree T polynomial of the output of the multiplication。

 and we can continue。😊，第二。Oh， okay， so you're asking why if only I get an output。 Okay， so think。

 okay， so the question was here， different people get different output。 That was the question， good。

So suppose I'm the only one who's getting an output。 G1。 All I want to do is teach me。

 reveal to me G had one。Then what do we do， We each do the computation that reveals basically just one。

 you know the output of just the first， we all compute。😡，And then you guys send it only to me。

You send the reconstruction， you do the reconstruction phase， you compute。

 you send the output wires corresponding to this polynomial。Only to me。

So now nobody learned anything， nobody saw anything。I'm the only one who got the output。

 nobody else got it because it's a secret channel。So basically， nobody got an up reconstruction。

 Only I got it。And similarly for each other person。嗯。对 yeah。Okay， great， great question。

 The question is， can we first trunncate and then we randomize and the answer is no， won't be secure。

 And the reason is， once we truncate。😊，We have shares of the truncated polynomial。

 So the team malicious corrected one。 They have already the shares。

 and then they're doed because they can learn something from it。

 So we really want to first randomize and only then give them shares of truncated polynomial。😊。

That exactly why we need T less than and over2 because the degree， Yes。

 because the degree grew to2 T。And that's precisely right。Okay， we're out of time。

 We'll see you next week where we'll start kind of really fun and advanced topics。😊。

