# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p25 6.5620 Lecture on 12⧸1⧸2025 (Mon).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p25-

Okay， hi guys。诶。You're still here。Okay， good。 Well some of you。

 So today we're gonna So last couple weeks， I think probably a week or two， two。

 maybe we talked about succeedcc proofs。😊，And today we're going to move on from succinct proofs to multipart computation。

😊，That's going to be kind of the last module of the class。 And and the way we're going to do it。

 we're first going to define a really interesting define and construct a really interesting primitive defined and constructed by Shamir called Se sharing。

😊，And that's gonna to be kind of the building block for us to construct secure multipart computation schemes that hopefully well get。

 will'll get to towards the end of today's class。Any questions though， before I start。Good， okay。

 so let's start。 So what is a secret sharing scheme。

So the idea of a secret sharing scheme is the following。 Suppose I have a secret S。

And I dont want I want to share it among you guys， so I want to give each one of you a share。

And my goal is that。Each one of you， when you look at the share， you get no information。😮，But if。

Enough people or some authorized subset of you。Come together， you can reconstruct my share。 so again。

 the idea is there's some dealer。Who has some secret S？Okay， for today。

 let's think of the secret as just being a bit for simplicity。

And then if you want to have a bigger string， you'll just share bit by bit。

So I I have one bit I want to share。 It's a secret。 I have many bits。 they're all very， very secret。

You， I have you guys and parties。And what I want to do。

 I want to give each one of you some share of my bit So this guy gets S1。

 let's say you it's N of you。 this guy gets SN。Such that， here is what I want。 I want。

If an authorized subset， get together and try to reconstruct the secret。

 they're able to reconstruct the secret。😡，But any unauthorized。Subset， if they come together。

 they learn nothing。Okay， that's the goal。 And now you can ask what is an authorized upset。 What。

 what do I mean by authorized And one can actually any monoton definition make sense。 So by monoton。

 I mean， if some set S is authorized， if you add someone to the side。

 they're also authorized because， of course， by adding a share。You can't learn less。

 You may not learn more， but you can learn whatever you could with a subset。

So any kind of monoton structure will do。 and indeed， there's a lot of work on this。 but for today。

 what we're going to talk about is T out of anti secret chair。And what this means is。Were N parties。

 So this is for here， it's party one。Up to party in。And we want it to be the case that if at least T。

Get together。They can reconstruct the secret。But less than tea cannot。Okay， yeah。自当。Good for， okay。

 you don't have to。 But here I am going to assume it's only 01 and。

you're asking what in practice okay and okay， so I want to say this is actually without loss of generality。

Yeah， if you have a bit any secret， we think of it as bits， that's how computers work by bit。

 So if you have an N string of blink N， that's your secret。 you're just going share bit by bit。Now。

 there is more efficient way of doing it， but I'm showing you just a possibility result。Okay。

 I have questions。Okay。So。E。Okay， so let's， let's define it。

So T out of end idea is any set of T or more。Should be able to reconstruct Le should learn nothing。

 Yeah， that's kind of the the idea。So。Definition。A T out of N。Secret sharing scheme。

Consists of two algorithms。Efficient algorithms。And here they are。

 the first algorithm is what's called share。Sre takes its input。The secret。😊，So in general。

 in general， work in okay， let me just， in general， you can have a message space。

 The secret comes from a message space。 Let's just do 01 for simplicity。

 The more general definition is in the notes。 But let so it takes as input N。😊，And outputs。

Shares S1 up to Sn。Okay， and this algorithm， it I'm assuming it has T and N kind of hardwired。

 like he knows what T and N R。 If you want， you can think of it also as。It's given。

I you can think of it as taking as input one to the。N1 to the T。And nice。喂。There is no Lada。

 There is no security parameter here， because good question。 you're like， where's my Lambda。

 We got used to Lambda。 like， where's my Lambda。 This is going to be information theoretic。Okay。

 so there won't be any security parameter。 Usually security parameter just says someone who runs in time。

 Paul Li Landa， if you bound him by some security parameter， they can actually。But here。

 we're going get completely information into results。 So even if you're unbounded。

 you won't learn anything。 So there won't be any security parameter。Of course， the runtime。

 when I say efficient， the runtime just grows with n。And the number of bits in S。

 But I assume as a 01 for simplicity。Okay， so we're going to assume that this is01 just for simplicity and share runs in time。

啊。Probilistic。Time。Call in。Because it needs to generate these。Shares and shares， So of course。

 it runs in Tpoan。Okay， so this is the share algorithm。😊。

And then there's another algorithm called Reconstruct。

 Hes also this is detererministic polynomial time。And what it does。

 it takes its input at least T shares。😮，Aim。Yeah， exactly。

 So let's say just T because you can always ignore the rest。 He will take his input， I and S I。😊。

For some set I， or let I is least T。You can think of as equal to T。And output'll put some S。

Reconstruct。Now， what are the？That's the a the。The definition of the algorithm， the syntax。

 But now what are the properties I want from this algorithm。So the first property is correctness。

 It just says， if I share my secret and tear or more come together， they can reconstruct it。Okay， so。

The properties are first is correctness。Which just says for every secret。😊，And for every set。I。啊。

Let me just say equal t， but it can be greater equal to， it doesn't matter。N E T players， if they。

 the probability。That reconstruct。Of。I and S I。Unput S where。S1 up to S N。Are generated by share。

Is one。Okay you always， you always if， if you share the secret。

And any tea come together and try to reconstruct it， they're going to succeed。😡。

And if we're more than tea， then therere just conity of the shares and reconstruct。Okay。

 this is just correctness。Yeah， questions about correctness。Yeah。Okay。The question is， why， why。

 why am I insist on one， put one minus negligible。I actually don't want to put one minus1 reveal here。

 And the reason is neck people in what。So in， in， okay， S is a bit。You can say negligible in N。😊。

Not be big。 Maybe the number， Maybe I want to share a secret between three parties。

And I want at least two。 Maybe I want two out of three secret chair。 So I have a secret a secret。

 which is a bit。I want to share it among three parties。So that any two can reconstruct。

So negligible and what。 I don't have。I don't ask notice。 I do not have a security parameter here。

And the reason I do not have a security parameter here。😡。

Is because I'm going to have information Theore security。Okay， so my security。

 which I'm going to define next。We'll see。That。The malicious parties。

 if you take less than tea parties， so unauthorized。

And they look at their shares and run an infinite time。 I don't care how long they run。Still。

 they don't learn this。And therefore， theres no security。 So I don't know negligible and what。Yeah。

 do you have a follow up question？That's exactly right。 That's kind of the problem。 There's nothing。

 nothing that going to infinity here。ok。Okay， how about security since now you guys are pros you're like two weeks before the end of the term？

嗯。Okay， so let's do it。 Yeah， so okay， right， so what do we want to say？Okay， so security what okay。

 security。 How do we start。you have less。If you have less than T， you want to say for any。

Less than tea a hadd。 they see their shares。I want to say they don't know anything about S。

 but what does mean they don't learn anything？Okay， that's good with you' right。

 with probably greater。 But let me， you're right。 That's a great definition。

 Let me define it in a way that just naturally extends to any message setting instead of 01。

 And even though here you can think of also S comes from a message space。 I wrote 01 because later。

 I'm going think of it a 0，1， but。😊，If you don't want to， you can think of S as coming from like。

Like， you can come from a message， please。And then the security says that for any two secrets。

 as an S prime。😊，So when you say from 01， it's kind of funny。 But you can think for any。

2 secrets for any message space。And for any subset of malicious users who try to learn。

 So for every set eye of malicious users。😊，I。Let's say， tea。You want to say？That if you look。And I。

And share I。It looks exactly the same as I share prime eye。Where these， okay， where。S1 up to Sn。

Equal， sorry。It can be less than， but。Sure。事被。Oh， sorry。 It was sorry， sorry， sorry， sorry。

 someone in my head， it was greater than。 Sorry， less than  tea。 Yeah， sorry， equal。 you can。 Yeah。

 thank you。So Sn of the S N is share。Of S with n and T， and this is S1 prime。Is share。Of as prime。

And often， we're going to think of N and T as fixed。

 and I'm not going to denote N and T when I say share。 Okay。

 it's kind of assumed from the context The N and T are we all know what they are。

 What's not clear is which what is the secret。 So we we omit the dependence on N and T。

 usually from the notation。そうで、すね。Maybe你是。Concer Rob。Okay， now you're saying， okay。

 so what you're saying is， how do you transmit？ So if I have a secret and I'm sending to you guys。

 maybe when I'm sending， how am I sending and am I sending in on a public network so someone can。

Look at the network and see all the secrets。So you're right。

 If I want to send it over a public network， I will need to encrypt it if otherwise， I can， you know。

 whisper in your ear。Okay， yeah。You know， this is statistical。 So this is。Statistically。

 actually it's identical。 It's identically distributed。

So this distribution distribution are the same。Yeah， you can have statistical， too。

 but it's actually identical distributed。Okay， so this is the definition。😊，And now。

 let's construct it。Any， any questions about the definition。And now note， I just want to mention one。

 this is。WhenWhen is this important， When is it used， So this is important two cases A。

When I don't trust maybe my own device， I want to make sure I have a secret。

 I don't want to put on my own。 I'm worried that I will get lost。 I want to give it to you。

 but I don't want you to know my secrets， either。So I'm going to distribute among a bunch of you。

And then I'm gonna ask you back to reconstruct。Okay。

 that kind of maybe makes sense ask so you can say， so make it n out of N。You know。

 you need all of us to collude to be able to reconstruct。

 But I don't want to do that because I'm worried that one of you is also gonna fail。 One of。

 what if one of your laptop dies。 And now you lost my secret。

 Now I'm never gonna to have my secret again。I think one way， like。

 think of like a secret can be a secret key to some wallet like digital wallet you have that if you lose that key。

 your million dollars are lost。 Now， you want to really put that key in your laptop。

 What if someone or in some cloud that may be destroyed or whatever。Get this was a million dollars。

 So what do you do， You put it among many， many places。

 kind of hope that they won't co because they don't even know that you put it in many places。

 You're gonna secret many， many places。 and then you need kind of any tea。

You only need to make sure that tear is still alive so you can reconstruct your secret。Okay。

 that's kind of an example。 By the way， one thing that you one can strengthen this definition and allow malicious parties。

 here I assume。In the correctness， you said， if everyone's honest。And I take tea of them。 If。

 I take tea of them Im telling you， give me back your shares。 I want to make my secret。

 You're gonna give me your shares。Now， you can say， wait， what if one of them is like。

If one I don't have the shares， that's no problem， you go to someone else。😡。

But what if one of them actually says， oh， I have this share。 It's a star。

 which is completely made it up。Now I was like， shoot， now the guy can't。 reconstruct their share。

So one can also talk talk about a malicious setting。 I'm going get to that at the end。 For now。

 honest， at least the reconstruct， to reconstruct， All I need is everybody to be honest。😊，Okay。

So honest meaning， they actually give the share I gave them。Okay。

 then we'll talk a little bit about the militias。 But now just for Sos and let just the honest case。

 And let's let's kind of prove， let's give us construction。Yeah， ready。

 any questions before we construct？😊，Okay， so。So let's first do some warm up。

 Let's first construct for warm up and out of end。So I want to share， I have a bit。

 I want to share it among all of you。 I I want if all of you get together， you can learn my secret。

But any subset that gets together， even if one is out， you don't learn anything。Anything。

Any idea how you would seek a chair。Yeah。Exor， exactly。 sorry。

 I wanted someone that I don't hear that often。 Okay， exactly， it'll just to Xer。

 So here's the share。Of S， just choose。At random。Completely at random。S1 after Sn。Search that。

The Xor。Is this。Now， of course， any N- one of them are completely random。Yeah。

 because I can choose for any n-1。 I can choose them completely random。

 And the last one is just X or X or with S。So this is great。 That's it。

 And you give everything how I construct， I just。😊，Xor them altogether， easy。If one person goes away。

 I lost my million dollars。 exactly。 this is really bad。If one person dies on me。I lost。 Okay， so。

 you know， we want a general T out of M。Of course， one thing we can do is， so let's do。

 let's do for a second， let's say two out of n that extreme。1 out of N。

 you just give each one the secret。 It's like nothing。Too out of then。

I can actually do something similar， which is I'll do two out of two secret chair for every pair。

That's something I can do。 Just， we know another N。 So we did that already。

So what we can still do is something like， let's do for every INJ that should be able to reconstruct。

We'll do  two out of two。Secret chair。And give each one kind of their pair。Okay。

 so now I basically got n shares or n -1 because I have my secret two got2 with you you2 it2 with and all of them。

😊，And now when they tell me to reconstruct。Let's say two of us come in we want to reconstruct。

 I give you my an。 you give me yan。 But I know which for every and I know。

 This is my reconstruct with you is this my one with you with party 1。 It's S 11， with party 2。

 It's S 12， It's party 2， It's S 1，3。 and so on and so forth。 And when party I and J get together。

 party I says， oh， it's J。 Okay， so here's my S I J。 And he's like， oh， here's my S J I。

 And they exhort together。Okay， but nowhere I have now n shares， which is kind of annoying。 T n。

 And now if I want T out of n。I'll have like， and choose T-1 chairs。

 because for every other T -1 players。Ill have the group with them。

 and that's not even polynomial anymore in。So no， so nice idea， but doesn't work。That's not good for。

Largety。Because the shares are going to be like， and。T -1。Size shares。So， no good。Okay。

Questions so far。Okay。So I still want ti R of n。 and I don't want the shares to grow。Question。Yeah。

 go。离婚。He dimensionional space。So you're saying the secret key kind of defines the subspace。

How much dimensional？T， a t dimensional subspace。And then you somehow give everyone shares。be。Okay。

 good。 So， okay， let me repeat what you're saying。 And I say， yeah， you're saying。The secret。

 somehow， any secret。Will correspond to a t dimensional subspace such that if you are given only t -1 points in this subspace。

 you kind of learn nothing about the secret。 you actually need to know the entire subspace to kind of tell you what the secret is。

That' I that's exactly what I'm thinking about。You just let the vector。That of zeros。Okay。

 let's see yeah， okay， let me， let me try to implement your idea for you。 Okay， so that's。

 that's basically what Chamil does。 it's in a different costume。

 But under if you strip out the costume， basically， it's what you're saying。

 So let me show you the Shamil secret sharing。So Ti event。So， last week。

Maybe even a little before that， you know， we were obsessed with low degree polynomials。

 They were really nice and， you know， had this nice air correction properties and so on。

 We're going now go back to the polynomials。 by the way， polynomials are amazing。

 Low degree polynomials are like the best creatures， super useful so。😊。

We'll use load grip polynomials again。 So here's Shiilo secret cheer。

 So I need to do to share and reconstruct。 So here's how he shares。 So he he fixes any field。😊。

Where the number of points in the field is larger than n。 Okay， so fix。Some field。Of size。

Greater than N。 for example， you can think of Grwa field。Of size P， where P is greater than n。

 And remember， this is just the field where you have addition and multiplication mod P。😊。

We're pizza of Prime。Okay， so you take， you do additionalplication at P。 Just take P larger than N。

 That's the only thing that's important。And now what you do， here's how you share。

To share a secret S。😮，So S is in the field， because 0，1，0，1 is also also always in the field。

 You can take S to be any field element if you want。 So it doesn't have to be 01。 but。

 but we have a 01。What you do is you choose a random。😮，Deeggree T -1 polynomial。 So share。

 it chooses。Randomly。Okay， so it such， okay， chooses randomly。A1 up to A T-1 from the field。

 So let me just。Aldenno by FP， the field。And let the polynomial P， How did I denote it。F。Equals。Some。

AI x to the I， I goes from1 to t -1， and the free coefficient。It's going to be S。Okay。

 so this is a random F。Such that。F of 0。Is the secret。Okay， so I basically chose a random。

 Everything here is MAp。 When I do addition， all the operation is always MAp or in the field。Okay。

 so how do I share a secret S？😮，I choose a random degree t minus1 polynomial。😮。

Who'se free coefficient is the secret。 and then I give party。And then， output。Fon1， Fon 2。

Up to Eanan。And that's why I need P to be larger。So I have enough point to give each person a different point。

Okay， so each party has evaluation of F and a different input。But not under the zero input。

 that's the secret。 So never give a fan 0。But F and1， F and 2 and so on。Okay。That's how we share。Now。

 how do you reconstruct？So reconstruct takes， let's say， I。And。How I the it222。 Oh， okay。

Its has some AI。I'm just following the notation in the notes。And S。I。For I goes from one to T。

 AI just means party AI。 So the AI is are between one and n。 Okay。

 means you have the the evaluation and F and point， oh， sorry， this is awful。Wow， okay。

 this really how I denoted it by the。Oh， I dont know the alpha not to be confused with a， fine。

The coefficients are random A。 The points。 So party， I get。T parties get together。

 They have the valuation F and T points。Because each party has one point。

Let's know this point by alpha 1， Al 2 up to alpha T。Okay， so basically， party alpha1。

He gets F and n for one， And the output is， let's call it S1。Partity alpha 2 gets S2。

 which is F and alpha 2。Okay， so they get T。 Now you have T points of a polynomial， a Uniivariate。

 So they how do you reconstruct given。The value。Of degree。T -1 polynomial。F。U T point。

You can reconstruct that。That's kind of the fundamental。Theorem algebra or something。 right。

 So if you have T， if you have T points of a degree T -1 polynomial。

 you can reconstructr the polynomial。呀。O， let me not。Go over the details。

 It's in the notes if you don't remember how this is done。Okay， great， so we share we reconstruct。😊。

Now， the only thing that's left to show is， okay， the correctness just follows from the fact that I'm claiming you can reconstruct。

How about security？😮，So security， we want to say if less than T。Come together。

They don't learn anything about the polynomial。😡，Yeah， so again， I have a， I have a。

ARandom degree T T minus1 polynomial。😮，That and0 is as secret as。

And I want to claim that if less than t。Get together。They don't learn anything。About us。Why is that。

Yeah。Yeah， exactly。Okay。0 and executive。Exactly， basically， we have T -1。degreeseges of freedom here。

 which is the a1 up to 80 -1。And therefore， that's kind of the intuition for why having this only on T-1 points give you gives you nothing。

 But the actual， you're right， the formal way to state it is to say。

 and let me not do the formal proof because I have more interesting things to say。

 but basically the formal ways to say it for any S actually。For for any Al I in S I。

And for any possible S， there's a reconstruction that makes sense。

 So how do you know which one it is。Yeah， so basically the。

The distribution of Al S I has nothing to do with us。These are going to be completely random。

So the S I are going be completely random over the random choice of the a1 up to 8，80-1。

For random A T， for random A's， the essence here are going to be random completely。Okay。

 and let me leave that as as an exercise， because by， by now。

 youre kind of experienced cryptographers， let me not， not do do the details here。

Questions before we move on。You're good with secret sharing。Kind of cool， right？Okay， now， let me。

 before I move on， I want to say a few things about， about malicious， this malicious setting。

 and also I timety this thing to kind of coding theory。😊，So there's a basic。Aircrafting code。

 So an aircrafting code， which is just。It's a way to take a message and encode it。To make it bigger。

But in a way that even if some of the kind of elements or some of the bits are corrupted。

 you can still decode。Okay thats you can still find the original message。 Okay。

 so you take a message， you encode it into some code so that even if few of the symbols are dropped。

 you can still get your message back， not even dropped， even kind of switched maliciously。

 you can still get your message back。😊，One of the kind of most famous。😮。

Coding schemes is read Solomon called read Solomon codes。 and it's exact， it's very。

 very similar to this。 So let me just connect it to this。 So what is a read Solomon code。

So it's a way I'm going to show you how I can take T。A message of length。T， I can do just one。

 but one bit。 But let me take T bits。 so I can take。Just make sure。Okay。

 so I'm going to show you how I can take a message M。And 01 to the T。

And the way I'm going to encode this message is I'm going to look at that So the encoding error cracking code of M。

Is going to be the unique。Deggree。-1 polynomial。F。Such that。F。And I。Is equal to MI。

You can start from 0。 You can like， you can think of like。M equal to M 0， M1。Up to empty。-1。Okay。

 you take the unique。Degree t -1 polynomial。That。Satisfies these T constraints。

And now the waym going include the aircrafting code。 So now the output。F and0， F and1。F and T -1。

 That's just the message。 This is gonna be just the message。But add a lot of other things， that's T。

All of them， even up to F P -1。As much as you want， add redundancy。Now， the point is。

 even if a bunch of these are erased， even if all of them are erased， except for T。

 you can reconstruct all the secrets because if you have T left。

You can reconstruct F once you know F， then F and 0， f and 1， F and 2 and so on， yeah。Okay， great。

 So good。 So so far， I just talked about honest。 Okay， so first， I want to say。

I managed to encode a message M。Into a larger。Code word。

 I can go all the way up to like the entire field。So P， you know， message of length from M。

 from T to P。And。I need is two of them to live， not malicious， just to live， and I can reconstruct。

This is called aircrafting code secure that you can reconstruct from erasureers。

 if things are erased。Okay， so all of a sudden， this is erased。 This is eraed。 This is erased。

 As long as tea are not erased， not malicious， just not eraed， you can reconstruct。Turns out， though。

😮，Here， you can also reconstruct， even if Allad are just malicious or against you。

And it turns out that if。You have P minus T。Plus one over two。 honest that that remain。

If you have this， okay， if。One set， sorry， sorry， I didn't write it correctly。If。Okay， if。

So this is a fact。If。Less than p minus t plus1 over 2。Are corrupted。So。

Less than this many are just completely corrupted adversarly。 So the address see this。

 he just wants to， you know， confuse you。And he's going to maliciously choose。

Less than this many of them and changes it them arbitrarily。Does Will？Still， turns out。

Using more sophisticated techniques， which I'm not going to talk about today。

 you can still reconstruct。Okay， and that's kind of how you decode retailal codes from errors。

 not erasures， but actually errors。 I'm not going show it， but I want to say in the lecture notes。

 a new Pro has really nice。 He wrote the algorithm that does this in a very， very nice way。

 I highly recommend you。 Check it out。 He gave really nice intuition。 It's a very nice。 He did。

 He did it。 So I， it's in the notes。 I added a link。😊，But I'm not going to talk about it here。

 I just want to mention that it is possible。Okay。But we're going to just look at the bit curious。

Okay， good。 So we have secrets。 So， but I， but I do want to mention。

 even if some of these are malicious。We can still use retailtlement decoding algorithm。

 which I didn't cover， but exist， and we can still recover the the the entire function。

 and hence its value and 0， which is the secret。Okay。Okay， so。

This is all I want to say about secret sharing。The next thing I want to do is to move to secure multipart computation。

So why， where is secret sharing useful？ Well， I said， you know， I gave you an example， you know。

 you have your secret key a wallet and you're really really nervous about losing your key。

 That's one example。But the。But the place that it's most often used。

Is in the setting of secure multiparty computation。So I'm going define what it is after the break。

 But I just want to give you a brief kind of intuition for what we're gonna talk about or preview。

For what we're going to talk about after the break and also on Wednesday so。

In a secure multi secure multiparty computation， the setting is the following。

 We have a bunch of parties， like all of us。And we want to compute something， okay。And。

 and we want to do a joint computation on our inputs， But our inputs can be very private to us。Okay。

 and we want to learn the output， but we don't want to reveal our secret inputs。Okay， so for example。

 maybe we want to compute。 We want to know， you know， what is the average grade in this class。Okay。

 and nobody wants to say what their grade is， but you want to compute average。Okay。

 so how do you compute the average grade？😮，Without revealing your own grade。Yeah。Get。Oh， okay。Okay。

 great。😊，Okay， so you're doing something that's almost that works really well。

 except you'll need the， okay， that's a great suggestion。It's a great suggestion。 you。

 it doesn't reveal zero because you chose the random number， not from infinity to infinity。

 but it reveals very little， So not zero， but very little。But also。

 one drawback of this is that it works for linear function because it's a linear。

 But you can think of more general functions。 Okay， so for example， let me give you。

 let's say there's an auction。😊，Okay， and I want to know who wins the auction。So I can。

 I can tell you， but I don't want you guys to know each other bits because then you'll incr by an epsilon。

 You know， you'll， then I'll get， you know， everybody will。

 maybe someone values my picture a million dollars。 If everybody else values in 1000。

 he'll never say a million。 And I want a million。So basically what I want you guys to do is to each person。

 you know， write in your number and some card and someone will tally it up。Yeah， but oh we got。

Oh my god。Okay。Okay， we're going to continue， I don't know if I'm going to write much on the board。😊。

Okay。😊，Sorry， I have a story to tell。 So， you know， instead center。 turns out there are mice。

 And one time I go in the sixth floor and the Debbie， who was our admin at the time， I。

 I just walk out of the elevator。 I see a mouse and I just scream my head off。 Well。

 youve got a preview right here。 Okay， so then Debbie the admins like， comes running， what happened。

 I like there's a mouse， and she's like。A mouse like she's about to kill me。 Okay。

 because I scream because of the mouse。 but I don't know I get freaked out of mice。 Okay， so， O。

 so yeah， so we're in a bid。 you want to send a bid， but you don't want to tell anybody your bid。

Okay， so how do we compute who had the max bid without revealing the bid。

Let me give you another example， even more sophisticated。 supposeose we're hospitals。Okay。

And we want to share our data because we want to compute something on our joint data。

 We want to run a machine learning algorithm。But， you know， we're not allowed to share data。

 That's against HIa。 There's privacy guarantee privacy issues that we were not allowed actually by law to share data。

HowBut we want to run the machine learning algorithm。

How do we run the machine learning algorithm and the joint data？O。So that's what we want to solve。

Okay。And it turns out one of the building blocks for doing this， like the first step。

 So let me start by kind of telling you the punchline。 We can do it。 We can actually compute。

Any function on our joint input may be machine running machine learning algorithms， doing。

If we want to do some， we have bids and we want to kind of find the max bid or anything。

 anything we want to do， we can do it securely。 So any function and our joint input that we can compute。

 we can also compute securely。And the main building block of doing this or not the main。

 But the first thing we do is the secret sharing。Okay。

 and now let me say there are there have been many， many。

 like secure multipart computation is a huge field branch in cryptography。

I'm going to show you one scheme， kind of the first scheme。Which is due to Benno Goldweer in Wierson。

 BGW。And it works in the information the setting。😊，Okay， so we're not going to use crypto at all。

 It's all going to be information thetic。 So very， very elegant。

There are variants that use cryptography and get better air resilience。

 I'll explain what I mean more corruptions。 I'll explain what I mean when I get there。

 But for this class， we're only going to talk about the information theoretic version and we're going to give the definition for the information thetic version。

 So we're not gonna have security parameters or anything like that for this week。

 So a break from security parameter。 Okay， let's take a couple minute break and then we'll do we'll define this security multipart computation。

 Yeah。😊，Oh， okay， so the first definition was around。Okay， I'll get up。

 I don't remember when it was defined。诶。SomeI believe it was in the '80s， like early '80s。

 maybe hold on， I'll tell you。88， that's when it appeared。 So mid 80s。

 I think it was kind of put forth。 It appeared in 88。 And by now， by the way。

 things are actually used。 It's pretty cool。 like large scale。 It seems kind of in scale in scale。

 Okay， so let's take a couple minute breaks。 And then a break。 and then we'll gonna go and define。

 maybe and start constructing。😊，He's there。My god。I think I should turn off the mic because if it's coming next to me。

 I think you're all gonna become deaf。No， so what are we gonna do， Can we like， we're gonna just。

 I'm gonna just teach with a mouse in our okay。し。Oh， it's gone。O。Okay， oh， yeah。Yeah。Sorry。😔。

Did you leave。はのい。Okay， sorry。I'm really sorry。What's the difference between this and fully homomorphic encryption？

 Good， So fully homomorphic encryption is just a way。 Okay。

 you fully homomorphic encryption is actually completely non interactive primitive。

 You can encrypt your X， and you can homomorph compute on it。😊，In an MPC。

 we all have like our shared input our secret input and we want to compute。 Now。

 you're right to think， basically， let me rephrase your question differently。😊。

Doesn't homomorphic encryption。Do it for you， in a sense。 And let me tell you。

 like you basically have a solution。 You're like， look， everybody in crypto input。

And now we're going， we can compute。And other the input under like fully homomorphically。

 we get the output and we dec the output。And actually， that almost works。

 That really kind of almost works。 And that's one way to do MPC multipart computation。

 But theres two things that there's one thing that is missing here， which is。😊。

Whoho owns the public key？So who chooses the public key， Is it me， Then I can dec everything。

 Is it you， then you can deve everything。 So who chooses it。

 So it works except that we need to somehow jointly。

Kind of generate this public key that we each have kind of shares of the secret key。

 How is this done。Using secure multipart computation。But yeah， that's one way of actually。

 So F H E is very useful for this。 Today， we're gonna see an information today tomorrow。

 probably and Wednesday， we're gonna see an information thetic construction without crypto， yeah。😊。

In order to prevent the collusion， I was wondering if there's some way do some sort of。

He like some sort of key part of your。So like they can even with like fire。Okay， so， okay。

 so what what you're saying is you， you want to say that even if many of them get together。

 they can't learn the secret because you hold something。You， you can probably do that。

 The problem is。What if you lose your things that you're holding？那造噶。That that's only， yeah， indeed。

 So one of the reasons we like secret chain is because we don't need to hold on。

 like if our machine dies， we can still get the secret。Great， great， great， great question。

 Was there any other question。对。Okay， so secure multipart computation。 Let's start with a model。 So。

 first of all， okay， so then what we wanted to describe or define is a way for us to interact to learn some function of our input。

 of our joint input。😊，Now， the first question is， what is the model， How do we interact？And for now。

 we're going to assume we're going to assume。😮，That we all have。Poinン？To point。Authenticated。

And private。Channels。Okay， namely。Each pair of us， I can talk to any one of you。

 You can talk to any one of。Of the other。Using you can send each。

 we can send each other a message that nobody else can see。 And you know what came for me。Okay。

 so why am I assuming that， Why is it okay， Where are these point to point secure。

 It's called kind of secure channels， Where does these secure channels come from。

We don't have secure channels。Exactly， by now， why am I assuming this。

 because you know how to implement this already， What do you do， You encrypt and you Mac or you sign。

Okay， so we we all have， let's say， public keys。 We all know kind there's a public directory with our keys。

 If I want to send you a message， I'll encrypt with your public key and I'll sign with my secret key。

 And when you get it， you'll make sure it's with me。 It's signed for me。 So you know。

 it's mine and you decrypt。So I don't want to put cryptography。

 And I'm just going to assume that I have these perfect kind of secure channels。

 They're authenticated and private。😊，Okay， now kind of extracting the crypto aside。

 we're gonna to do the MPC。 By the way， I just want to say one more， one kind of general comment。

It's always very nice when we construct our schemes to try to abstract away the crypto。😊，Okay。

 like even when we talked about about。Like proof systems。Okay。

 we first did like Gcart's information and theore。Then we kind of said， okay。

 you can collapse using Fre。 So you first do an information thetic。 Then you add some crypto。

 It's nice to kind of separate where the information thetic part is and where the crypto is。

 because when it's all done together in mush， every it becomes too complicated。😊，Okay。

 so it's always nice to kind of abstract away the crypto。

 which is what I we're doing here with a model。😊，Okay。Now， okay。

 so now we and another thing we assume and that's actually a big assumption。

 we're also going to assume。That the model is synchronous。What does it mean。

 It means there are some rounds。 We can say， okay， and round  one， everybody do this in round 2。

 everybody do this in round 3， everybody does this。 You can say， where does this round come from。

You know， except what we have clocks。 So， you know， at this time， we all do this。 at this time。

 we all do this。 Now， people say， okay， clocks are not this。's not really。

 we're almost at the same time。 but not really at the same time。 So we're not really synchronous。

 We're gonna assume synchronous。 Okay， were gonna assume we have a clock。

 and it's pretty synchronous， which is。Not that far from reality。 There is also a lot of work。

 especially in the distributed algorithms community that consider the asynchronous setting。

 which is a huge mess。 So we're gonna stick the synchronous。Okay。So now that's the the a notion。

 And now we want to define。 So basically the the model is， you know。

 we each have private input at every our protocol proceeds and round in every round。

 we send a message to the other parties， we get back messages， we see our messages， we send messages。

 we get messages and so and so forth at the end of the protocol， we should output。The R。 Let's。

 and also， let's assume for simplicity。 This is really for simplicity。 It works。

 what I'm gonna show you works in general。 But just so to simplify it for our head right now that I'm。

 as I'm teaching it， let's assume。😊，That all parties。Should learn。F and there in private inputs。

 x1 of x。And of course， there are setting where I learn F1 and you should learn F2。

 Maybe we shouldn't all learn the same thing。 Maybe only I learn something。

 you shouldn't learn anything。 There's a lot of settings。

What I'm going show you is actually works for all the settings。

 but it's nice to just keep in mind one specific setting。 And this is an easier， easy。

 easy one to keep in mind。 Okay， so let's say we all want to jointly compute the same function F。

 We should all learn f at the end。 Okay， the average grade or whatever it is。😊，I is no， yeah。

 this is public， good。So we know what it is we want to learn。Okay。

 and access are our private our private inputs。Okay。Okay， so how do we define security。

 That's the question。哎。Maybe I'll keep this。Okay， how do we define security？So。

And this turns out to be very， very tricky。 the definition here is one of the big contributions to cryptography。

 Okay， it's really a definition that was later used all the time in different contexts。

 So let's try now you experience cryptographers。 Let's try define what we want from security。😊，Okay。

 so we run this protocol and we want to say it's secure。Let me give you， okay。😡，Take one。だけが。Okay。

 wait。 So you say， okay， take one you're saying no。N-1 parties。Can compute。F。呀。Well。It turnsurs out。

 no， why。 What if the part， what if the part the F is such that， it depends on only n -1。

Maybe it doesn't you sex。So， this is actually too much。Okay。Good， no， yeah。

 This is very Any others give give me， give me definitions， ideas。😊，Did you have a question。Okay。

Okay， let me， let me how about， okay， I want my my take one to say nobody learns anything。Of course。

 thats you want them to learn at least half。Okay， what about this？The parties。Learn。Only。

They don't want anything else except separate。Pretty good。Yeah。😊，O， that's a good point。

 You're saying， wait， what that reveals everything。 But， you know， we agree that we want an learn F。

 So we start the protocol we're like， look。Our goal is to learn F。Now， people could say。

 I don't want to be。 I don't want to be part of this。 I don't want to leak F。 You're right。

 F does leak something about our inputs。Okay， even if we compute our average salary。

And you guys are all students and make a little。 And maybe I'm at M T a professor and I make a billion dollars。

 Then I may not want to leak that because the average salary will leak a lot about my salary。

So F may may actually make information about， about our private inputs。

 in which case we may not want to participate， But let's say we did choose to participate。

So we agree on leaking of。That's kind of part of the complete。😡，And now it's okay。

 Well leak at that we agree， but let's not leak anything else， at least。Seems pretty good。😮。

I see a lot of like，いかにて个。知到。Exactly， exactly。Exactly。Yeah。That's exactly right。

But let me tell you something。 Let's say I promised you。 you don't learn anything except for F。

I want to think this is still not secure。 This is not good。No。Why。😡，Let's， for example， go back。😮。

To the auction example。Okay， now maybe you do learn the bid。

 Let's say F is the max bid or even the party with the max bid or whatever， whatever we did。

 we chose to make the F。 Let's say the F is the largest bid。The problem is， this does not ensure。

Independence of the， of our bids。So maybe， you know， yeah， all you learn is the max bit。

 but I'm somehow men， I somehow succeeded。😡，And making my bid the max of U percepsilon。😡。

That's not a secure NPC。In a secure NPC we should。Like my input is my input it's independent than your input。

 which I don't even know。1月放。Okay， but you is a little bit something。 But how do we define。

 You don't want to define in a。This is a very， it's very difficult。 How do you define this creature。

And the way this is defined， and this has been super influential in cryptography。😊。

Is via what we call ideal， real world simulation。 It's ideal， real kind of model。

 So it's kind of comparing the way the definition works。😊，It compares。The real world。

 the real execution。To an ideal execution。So I'm going to define it formally in a second。

 But basically， the idea when we want to define we say， okay。

 what what's the ideal ideal way we want it to work。And the ideal way we wanted to work is say， okay。

 we each have our private input X。We go to this trusted God。 We tell him， okay， here's my ex。

 Don't tell anyone He's trusted。Oh， he doesn't reveal。 I whispered in his ear， my X。

 You whisper all the xes and he comes out and says。The output is F of x1 of T N。他在。That's a cure。

If we have dis trusted。You know， goddess。Now we want to say our scheme is as secure as that one。😮。

Okay， so now I'll define it formally。I'll stay away from the mouth。Okay， so here's the definition。哎。

Secure。MPC。Protocol。4。Computing。A function， F。Satisfies the following security guarantee。

For every adversary。Let me call them A。Controlling our most。 Okay。

 so let me define a secure NPC protocol。For computing， sorry， for computing F。In the presence。

Of tea corruptions。So suppose two of the parties。Can be corrupted。Okay， we have end parties。

 T of them can be corrupted。AProtocol for a computing F independent corruptions。

 is that to be secure？A security protocol for computing F。Satisfies。The following。

For every adversary。A。Controlling。Tea parties。So， even at most。Tea parties。

Let me call them i1 up to IT。There exists。😮，A simulator。S。Controlling the same parties。2、那你。

A similar S， I'll explain what it is， Such to that。The real such act。For every inputs x1 up to Xn。

Of the parties， x 1， party 1， x2， party2s。If you look at the real world。with the address A。

 an in with inputs x1 of to X N。It。It can be simulated by the ideal world， by the simulator。

Did I en rule by S。With。I won。Up to I。And X， I1。Up to X， I T。So in other words。

 what are we saying here， We're saying。Take it。Secure multipart multipart computation。

 some protocol where we all have our inputs， we communicated with each other。

We say that this protocol is secure。😮，If for any adversary that controls two of the parties。You run。

😮，The protocol in the real world， you just run it。And look at that。

 So now we need to say what real is and what ideal is。Real。

Is the output of all the parties where the malicious parties can output whatever they want。

 They don't need they output whatever。So。So okay， good， so wouldn okay， so the real。Is just。

The final output。😮，Final output。Of all parties。Which means what I mean is。😮。

If everyone was completely honest。The output would just be F， F of x1 of Tan。 Everybody will say F。

 ever say， this is the average of of our grades。And everybody will reveal the same average。

 if everyone was honest。That's the real。 Everyone just says what the output。

 what they think the output F is。Of course， if we each have a different output。

 like maybe I'm supposed to learn F 1， you're supposed to learn F 2。 you're supposed to learn F 3。

 each one output there output that they learned。The malicious parties can help whatever they want。

They can output， you know maybe they learned your output， they can output that。😡。

They can output everything。 Everyone send them。 They cannot output anything。 They're malicious。

 Theyre trying to kind of leak secrets。So of the malicious parties。

Of all parties and the malicious ones leak whatever they want。That's real。And the， the ideal。

The idea is the following。In the idea。The honest parties。One second。IThink I got the notation。Sorry。

😔，哎哎。Let me den x1 of xn， and I'll explain。Okay， here the honest party。

They just go to our ideal functionality。 So in this ideal， there's the parties。😊。

There is the ideal functionality in the sky。 He's like， trusted。

 The honest part of each one tells him its input， X 1， X 2。😊，And so on。

The team malicious parties controlled by S。 so S controls。You know。

 part is I1 up to IT and he sees Xi 1 up to X I。😡，He can give the ideal functionality whatever he wants。

The ideal function is computer。So he gets the actual Xs for Don's party from the malicious party。

 Maybe this is party I。 He can get X I prime or X I， Yeah star， whatever the。😊。

The simulator wants to give him。And he generates。And output the。

 He honestly computes F and then puts he got。And he sent it to the parties。 He sent the parties。

 He said， I computed the output for you Here it is。If it's the same after everybody。

 isnt the same after everybody。If I get F1， he tells me， yellle， I computed everybody。 you get F 1。

 If you get 2， F 2， he gives you F2。 He just gives every party what their。Function is。

And now each party again outputs what he got from the idea of functionality。

And the malicious guys can do whatever they want。 They can output whatever they want。Now。

 what did they learn here， they didn't communicate with anyone。They just learned with them。😮。

The ideal functionality gave them。And their input So all they can output is。You know， their inputs。

 some function of their inputs and what they got from the ideal functionality。

 more than that they can do。 They can output your secret if it didn't。

 he didn't get it from the ideal functionality。So basically what we're saying is。😮。

All the a we can learn here。The addresss goal to kind of ruin it。

 either learn or have their input depend on your input。 or， you know， they want to kind of。

 but all they can do， basically。Is。Choose one input to gift to an ideal functionality。

Based maybe were a bunch of us cohooting together as an adversary so we can choose together what it is we want to give to the ideal functionality。

And then we get output。 That's it。We can't do more damage than that。And that， of course， we can do。

By the way note， let's say， let's say we want to compute the average of our grades。And I got a 60。

There's nothing preventing me for telling for pretending I got a  zero foring I got 100。

My input is my input。 I choose what， what my input is。So。

You can't force me to be truthful on my input。Because it's not even clear what that even means。

 What is my input， I I define my input。In that sense。

 the reason I'm kind of spending time on this is this is， again。

 this is the most intrinsic definition in cryptography。 since then。

 there have been a bunch of others that use this。😊，But this is kind of the。

 the first to be so so intrinsic， in my opinion。So it's kind of important to understand the nitty gritty of this definition。

And moreover， let me tell you one more thing。When we talk about an adversary。

 once say for any adversary controlling some tea parties。What can this adversary do。

And there are two flavors of adversaries that were considered in the literature。😊。

The first type of adversity is what we call honest， but curious。And the second is malicious。Okay。

 honest but curious adversary means that when we actually run the protocol。

The adversary is actually sending what he's supposed to send。He's not actually changing the messages。

So the adversary actually follows the protocol。But he's curious in the sense that if he controls Tea parties。

He tries to learn everything he can from what these Tea parties have learned during the protocol。

And he's going to output that his goal， he's behaving honestly。

 but he's really curious and is's trying to learn information about the other parties。

So he's going to kind of learn， he's going to control tea parties。

 look at all the messages they receive。 He's going to send you should think of him as an adverary that doesn't he doesn't change the messages sent by the Tea parties that he control。

 but he really looks at all the communication that goes in and out of these tea parties with the goal to learn information about the other parties。

That's the honest， but curious。Okay， a me。 So you can have a real end honests but curious。Where。

 you know， the protocols executed， honestly， everything is is honest。

 but the adversary takes tea parties and kind of looks at all the communication coming into them and going out from them and their inputs and trying to learn information about the other parties。

 which is gonna output at the end。😊，It then， ah， I learned this。

And this should be simulated by the poor simulator。

Who sees nothing about the other party except for the output？That's not curious。

The miicious is one where the adversary All House goes loose。

 He nas with the protocol changes things。 He behaves something in really weird ways。 And。

 but he sends really weird messages on behalf of the corrupted parties and so on。

We are only going to cover the honest but curious setting。Okay。

 why are we only covering the an Cur setting。Not because I believe that the adversaries in real life are just honest。

 but curious。But for two reasons， first。The protocol is beautiful。

I can mention a word about how to amplify it to the malicious setting。 Okay。

 but I I wish I had time to do the malicious as well。

 but also one other reason is that using additional cryptography。

 we can force the a to be honest we curious。Basically， he's going to proven zero knowledge。

That he's behaving honestly。So by using honest Be curious and zero knowledge proofs。😊。

You can make it malicious。 You can make it secure against malicias。

 You can basically force them to behave honestly， Otherwise you are bored。

So there's a generic way of kind of amplifying him to be malicious。O， using additional cryptography。

 we can also do malicias with no crypto beyond the secure channels。

But then I'm not going have time to， to cover。Okay， so on Wednesday。

 we're gonna cover the B GW protocol， which is secure multipart computation protocol。O。See you then。

