# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p03 6.5620 Lecture on 9⧸10⧸2025 (Wed).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p3-

OK。so。Hi， everyone。So we're gonna continue from where we stopped last time。

So we're gonna today the focus of this class and also next class is on defining and constructing pseudo randomum generators and we'll see today how exactly it's used to get encryption scheme。

 So just a quick recap， last class on Monday。 we talked about we defined the notion of a computational。

 secure encryption scheme where the goal here is to kind of get around the restriction that the key。

Is as long as the message， we wanted to get like keys of length。

 some security problem or lambda and be able to encrypt messages length poly Lada。

 maybe lambda to the1th or just much bigger than the key length。

And we thought that in order to do that， we need to we need to relax the notion of security。

And instead of relying on perfect security or Shannon security or perfect induishable security。

 as we call them。We need to move to the notion of some computational security。

 And by computational security， what I mean is that we want security to hold only or we are okay with security holding only against an efficient adversary。

 So an adversary of size， poly。 Okay， so we're now an all powerful adversary。

 if he runs infinite time or you know， really， really long。 Yeah， he can cheat。

But it will take him like forever， basically。 Okay。

 so we're only offering protection or security against pnomally bounded adversaries。Okay， so。

 so we we talked about that。 Ill call the definition here because we'll use it today。

 And we saw that in order to define it， we needed to。

 we introduced the notion of a negligible function where just to recap a negligible function is a function that approaches 0 really fast。

😊，Faster than one over poly for every possible poly。O， so it's negligible。 If for any polynomial。

 I don't know， Lada to the 10。After some Lada， you， you decay faster than one over lambda to the 1。

You can this holds for every 10。Okay， so for any constant。And and so using this notion。

 we defined the notion of a computationally secure encryption。 I'll recall it in a second。

 And then we also defined the notion of a one way function。 And as we will see。

 one way functions are what is needed。And sufficient to construct our， our computational。

 our computationally secure encryption scheme。Okay， so。Any questions before I start today， yeah。我都男的。

なんだ。No， so good。 So when I say Lambda， I， I think of Lada as a security parameter。 Okay， in practice。

 people take a fixed security parameter and how big the security parameter is。

 depends on the scheme you use and depend on the assumption and how how much time。

 like what's our best cry analysis is。 often sometimes people use Lada to be 256 B。

 Sometimes they use it to be 2048 B。 Sometimes So it just governs basically Lambda。

Is some kind of a proxy。 It's not equal， even though for now in the class， it is equal。

 but lambmbda is a proxy for kind of the length of the secret key。Okay， and we will think。

 but we don't want to set it as a fixed constant。 We think of it as a parameter。

 So the bigger lamb there is， the longer it will take to break the scheme， basically。那个南北人。どてま。なんだ？

Yes， exactly。 Yeah， here， Yes， yes， exactly。 Yes， I'll get to that。 Yes， it's the same I done， yeah。

Any， any questions。我可以呀。ItSo actually， it is defined using。

 you can think of it as it is defined using aymptotic notation， but it's not enough to say， so okay。

 so the way we define negligible。We said that for any polyly， there exists。 So for any， for any。

 sorry， let me write it， Polly。Or you can think of it for any C another way， for any constant C。

For large enough， So asymptotically speaking。 So for there exists some constant lambmbda C。

So that for every lambmbda bigger， sorry， lambda bigger than lambmbda C。

New of Lambda is going be smaller than one over Lambda to the sea。

So it isn in some sense an astic notation， saying that it grows。 It's so basically。

 you can say this as。Vi of lambda。Little O of one over lambda to the sea。Great， other questions。Okay。

 so。Good， so let me just recall the definition of of a secure encryption scheme。 So remember。

 encryption scheme is associated with a key space， a me space in a Cytex space。

 But now that it can depend on a security problem lambda。

 So it's a single answer So we choose a lambda。😊，And we take like the key space corresponding T Lada for us。

Well， think of this is just going to be 0，1 to the lambda。The message space can grow with Lada。

 but in many of our schemes， the message speech is 0，1。 we encrypted by bit。So that's also。

 it doesn't have to go with something at all。And then their decipher tax base。That will grow with La。

And then there's an encryption algorithm。 You take the key， Lada bits， you take the message。

 and you encrypt it。 And then there's decryption that takes the key。

 takes the cipher text and supposedly gives you back the message。Yeah。

 and then we said there is the correct list that says that for every lambda。诶。Every key。

And every message。When you encrypt and try to decrypt， you get back your message。

 So when you try to decrypt。Using the keyK。The Cyphert。Encrypting M with the T K。You get Beck it。呀。

And then the security， computational security。 And again， from now on。

 I'm just going to call it security。Okay， so when I say security， Im mean computational security。

What we the definition what we want is that。When you see an encryption of any。

 then encryption gives you nothing。 Basically。 So even if you choose M0 and M1。

And you see encryption M M 0 or encryption of M1。 They look the same to you。Okay， so。What we say is。

 so actually， we gave two equivalent definitions。嗯。Okay， so we。We say that for every。

Polynomial size adversary。This tries to distinguish。There exists an negligible function。Such to that。

Every lambda。And any two messages。Maybe I'll move here。

I'll continue here for every lambmbda and every two messages M 0， when I'm 1。

The is going to get an encryption of either M0 or M1。M0 is supposed to have M1。

 and his goal is to distinguish whether he got a ciphert encrypting M 0 or a cipher text encrypting M1。

 And you should not be able to guess。Okay， so。The probability。That a。Give me。

 So he's gonna get a random key's been going to be chosen。And a random bit is going to be chosen。

And the adverary is going to get。Ccryption of M B。And he needs the Gatby。He wants to guess。

 if you can encryption M 0 or M1。And they should be successful。 Well。

 they can always be successful for what have。But not much more than half。

So he have a negligible advantage over just guessing。Okay。And as we said， alternative definition。

 that's equivalent。 So this is kind of one， but an equivalent definition is to say the same for every M 0 and M1。

We want to say that， the probability。Whatever。However， the adary behaves。And M 0。

So the dressary sees this and outputs 1 or0 with some probability， I don't care。

But it should be the same， basically， as the probability。That a outputs one。With M1。

So the difference between these。一s在都。Okay， so an equivalent definition。

 and maybe we'll see in the homework。 This is really just playing around with the thing。

 So maybe we'll see a question like this in the homework that these two are equivalent。Okay， so。

You can say that there is this inelible function。Such that the a for any two messages。

 He can guess which one was encrypted we at most negligible。

Then then it also means that there is an adjubal function。Such that。

The way a that diversity here behaves when you get encryption to M 0。Is should be very similar。

To the way he behaves when he gets encryption of M1。So if here the opportunities for T P。

Here he also， he should also open one with probability， basically P P plus minus negligible。

So his goal to distinguish， he wants to here he wants to output0 and here he wants to output one。

But he， he can't。 He， He outputs the same thing in both cases。So this is what we've seen last time。

Questions， again， before。Okay， so one notion that will be very useful。

Is which kind of another way to say this with using a new notation。

 And this notation will be useful today when we define formally the notion of pseudomic generator。

Is that a computational in distinguishistuability？Okay， so basically。

Is it the case that no adversary。Can distinguish between this and this。Then， sorry。

 the probability is over here key。I did tried it， but。Yeah， or K land， it's the same。

Cause I'm assuming the key is。This is just Kate。男的。Okay， so basically， what we're saying that this。

Distribution， fix M0 and M1。This is a distribution of pain by choosing a random key。

In computing encryption。Of them Z with this key。This is another distribution。

That's obtained by choosing your random key and encrypting M one with this key。

So we have here two distributions。Now， these distribution are not the same distribution。

 Ones encryption of 0，1s encryption of1， They're not the same。But they look the same。

To a computationally bounded adversary to the eye of a bounded adversary， of apolitan adversary。

They look the same。And when2。Families of distributions look the same。

 We say that they're computationally indistinguishable。 They're not the same。

But the computationally inbounded adversary， they look the same。Okay。

 and then we say that such a family of distributions are computationally distinguishable。

And the reason I say family， not just two distributions。So okay， let's， let's So I said heres。

 I have a distribution here。 I have a distribution。But I think of as these two distributions。

 as a family of distribution。 Why， what's the yeah。Because。

This your example very exactly for every lambda。 I have two distributions。Okay。

 so let me define this formula this notion and computational distance disability。

Let me erase this for now。Okay， so。So we say that two family。2 family of distributions。

Let's say D 0 Lambda。 So for every lambda， I have a distribution。And let's say， D1 Lada。

So I have two families of distributions。 And I say that they are。Computationally。Indeistinguishable。

If。If what， if no adversary can tell the difference if he's getting a sample from here or a sample from here。

Okay， so if for every bounded adversary。There exists a negligible function。Said to that。

For every lambda。The probability。That a。Giving giving X。From。Let me call it x 0。From。诶。

let me first write it this way， X， B。From。So a bee is chosen at random。

And then X B is from the B Lada。Is chosen and his goal is to me。Okay， he got。

 he got a sample from random beast troops。 and he got a sample from D sub B。A朗da。

And he needs to guess B。 If he got a sample from the 0 from the one。And he shouldn't be able to。

 so he can guess it probably our most。What。内部直播。Okay， or alternatively to the second one。

 So equivalently。我。So an equivalent definition。Is to say that the probability。That a。And x0 equals 1。

Minus the probability， that a。And x 1 equals1。Where here he gets x 0。From D 0 Lambda。

 And here he gets x 1。From the one Lada。And it's at never。O。

 so we say that they're computationally indistinguishable。 Okay， if you cannot。

 aly bounded adversary， cannot distinguish。And we denot it by。Let me write here。 The notation is。

The0 Lada is computationally indistinguishable。 This is usually the notation， or。From the one。So。

 this is a family。But just， you know， sometimes when you read papers or textbooks， sometimes。

So it should be an ensemble of distributions， like， it's a big family of distribution。

For every lambda， there is a distribution， because the notion is is meaningful only as lambda。

Gost to infinity， because otherwise， the notion of negligible doesn't make sense。 Okay。

 so it's an all asymptic notion。But sometimes when you people sometimes abuse notation and theyll write just D。

0 Lada。I's in distinction from D1 language。But this is just an abuse notation for this。 Okay。

 this is what they mean when they， if you ever see this， this is what they mean。

Just sometimes people get like。You know， we know， we know it by now。 and we just w to do a shortcut。

So if I ever make that shortcut， that's what I mean， I'll try not。Okay， questions。So just note。

 if going， going back to the definition。Ofp security here。

So the computational security said another way， forget about the diversity and so on。

 computational security。You says that for any。 So this is kind， this is one， tool。

 And here's a third way to define it for every lambda。And every M 0 M1。In M lambda。The encryption。

With key and M 0。I guess this is M0 Lada M1 Lambda， was denoted by Lambda M 0 Lada。Lada。

Is indistinguishable from the encryption。Key of M1 lamb。

And this key is like the distribution is over a random key。

Chosesn from key lambda or random lambda bit key。So that's another way， just a shortcut。

 So when we say these is indistinguishable this or that like this is often how we denote in or two lines or this way。

 it doesn't matter。 you'll see both in the literature that basically the adversary is hidden in this notation。

 So this is a succinct way to say because there are distinguish means for every adversary。

 There exist in neligible functions。 distinguish this and this with probably a most negligible。

So it's just a more succinct way。To write what we wrote above。Question， yes。我。I believe and。No， oh。

 yeah。 No， sorry， no。Let me write it be consistent。 but no， it's all the same。

 but sometimes people use this as well。 So yeah， it's the same。Sometimes also people use more。

 not as common， but they'll do this with C。Because there's other notions。 So C's computational。

 Sometimes they'll use this with C。C standing for computational。

So you'll see we're not super consistent in the literature。Any questions about this。Okay。

 so now we want to construct this。 Yeah， so how do we construct this encryption scheme。

With long messages。And the way we're gonna construct it。

 the tool we're going to use is what's called the pseudo randomum generator。

 So let me define a pseudoendum generator。 and I'm actually to use the computational and distinguishability notion to define it。

Okay， so。You stand。By the way， if if I'm going too fast or I'm going too slow。Or， I'm writing to。

Kind of small or too large or any feedback you have。 Please let me know。 Okay。

 and try not to let me know by the end of the semester， because。No， I won't improve。

 Only the next students will take advantage of that。 So， you know， if there's any feedback。

 please let me know， let the T As know。 I'll think it's serious。 I promise。Okay， so， okay。

 so what's the tool we're going to use to build this encryption。

And the tool is a pseudo randomum generator， PR G。So， let me define it。So， a P G。

Let me just make sure I'm consistent with my notations。嗯。L then then。 O， so a PR G。

Is it deterministic？A poly time。Computable function。With two properties。1。It's expanding。

What do I mean by expanding？I。For every x， let's say， ins whatever length。

 let's say 01 to the lambda。Oh， a PR G。Let me call it G。So first。

 it's expanding for every act of length。 Let me call it Lambda。 This is for every lambmbda。G of X。

Is at length larger than lambnda。O， so this will be a blank。 let's say N of lambda。

 where n of lambda is bigger than lambda。 So it would have to be expanding。By the way。

 you have a question on PRG and certain generators in the homework。When we assume we have a PR G。

 it's expanding。 It must be expanding。Okay， that's one of the of the conditions。And 2。

Is that the output looks random。So even though so the two says that if you look。Distribution。

G applied on a uniform。String。Ofline lambda。So， this is endbit。It。

 it has only lambda bits of entropy， like the only lambda the randomness is here。

 It's only lambda bit。But it looks like it's indistinguishable from。Being uniform。And ends。Okay。

 so when this is just a notation。This means uniform。In 0，1 to the end。Okay， then when I say you sub。

Something， I'm in uniform in 0，1 to that size。So this， of course， is non uniform。Yeah。Yeah， so yeah。

 you can think of it。 Yes。 So here you think of like it takes any lambmbda。To an of lambda。Yes。Oh。

 no， sorry， sorry， sorry。This is a star。Sorry， sorry。 It takes like anything。

It takes any string and output some string， but it takes strings of lambda， the strings of length。 N。

 and we call it n of Lada。😊，But， it should be bigger。Okay。

 so it takes any string of length lambmbda to string of the same length。

Let me call it N of Lada and N of lambda needs to be bigger than lambda。

This is this expanding or stretching。Condition。O， so it stretches and it's stretchedes by fixed amounts。

 It's the same any in any input length。 Lambda should have the outputs of the same length。

And I call it N of Lada。 And then it's be larger than lambda。Despite the fact that it's stretching。

 So this is really not uniform。Cause a uniform。String， and this is end bits。

TheEung and N has nbit of entropy。And this has only lamb0 bits of entropy。 So it's not uniform。

But it。Like its uniform in the eye of a polynomial size adversary。So Boed a thinks it's uniform。

 but it's not。Good， it' oh yeah。Let me already， I made that mistakes。 Thank you。 Anna of lambda。

 lambmbda in。Exactly， so here I have a family， one for every lambnda。 Here I have a family。

 one for every Landa。And thank you。 Thanks so much。 I love it when you guys correct me。

 That's the best。Okay， oh， by the way， I said something completely wrong Last time nobody cracks me only at the end。

 And then， I can't believe I said that I'm， I'm recorded， too。 So I said like。Okay。

 so let me correct it Now。 I said that we believe that I think I said that we believe that B。

 PP probabilistic polymial time is different than polynomial time。 But no， we believe it's the same。

 We just don't know。 So currently。We think， like， with our current techniques。

Randomness is helpful for us， but we don't necessarily， you know。

 it doesn we don't believe that kind of tossing random coins should make our life like changes the picture。

So we don't believe that BP is different than P， but randomness currently in our life for algorithms is helpful。

 Sorry for the parentesis。 but I， I said it in gr last time。 Okay， so， O。

 so any question about the definition of a PR G。Now。

 I want to take a moment and note that this definition is really。Counter intuitivetuitive。reallyally。

 if you。Forget about what we talked about last class。 the first two classes。

What am I telling you here， I'm telling you。Oh， you can take a short。

 random string and generate randomness out of it。It's really。Unbelievable that you can do that。

Because after you can't do that， the only reason why we can do it is we're bounding the capability of the adversary。

 but even。Because you can't just generate randomness without。You know， you need。

 you can generate trends out of thin air。 It's not。 And what we're saying， well。

 if you're bounded averary， we can trick you into believing that we did that。

So you can be kind of magicians。Against this kind of bounded。

 potentially bounded crowd and make them believe that we generated random the outath thin air。

And the fact that we can do it is really。Wow。Like， I think it's amazing。 It's， by the way。

 I think it's one of the most beautiful gems of cryptography。 We'll see some more gems。

 But this is definitely one of them， yeah。😊，There is。Okay， good。 Okay， so I defined it。

 But you're asking， do we have it， Does there exist a PR G。Good， so， actually。

We don't actually know if PR Gs exist， frankly， however， what we do know。

That if one way functions exist。So one if function something we defined last class is's a function that's easy to compute。

 but hard to invert。If one rate functions exist， then PRG exists。Now， one way function。

 we really believe exists。 We have a lot of candidates for many cryptographic assumptions。

 We'll see one of them in the next homework。 by the way， you have all you need to do homework。

 the first homework。 Okay， so the only thing that was missing is the definition of P G now you have that。

 So you're all set to finish the homework and next time we'll see not next time， the next Pet。

 you'll see kind of candidate constructions for one way functions。Okay。

 but whyt we function something that we believe we have。Under under assumption that we believe in。

 for example， if you believe it's hard to factor larger numbers。

 if I give you a product of p times  Q where P and Q each have， let's say， Lada digits， Lada bits。

 if I give you p times Q， my assumption is it's hard to find P and Q。Okay。

 so it's hard to factor large numbers。 If you believe that， then I have a one way function。Okay。

 so its， that's not obvious why， but we， we know that。 And under various hardness assumptions。

 So basically， what we do the way we construct this PR G。Is we assume。That we have hardness。

 some hardness。And we use that source of hardness。To get randomness， fake randomness。 So basically。

 we use the fact that you， my audience or my adversary is perly bounded。So I use a hard some hard。

 some one way function that I know you can't in。And I'm using the fact that you cannot invert the one way function。

To kind of stretch。My lamb bits of input。In a way that looks to you。

 because you can't break my one function。 It looks like it's randomized。 It。

 it looks like completely random。 It looks like I stretched the randomness that I generate random out of thin air。

 but actually， I didn' didn't generate any randomness。

What I added are things that are not at all random。 They're actually deterministic， given。

 but they look random because you can't， you can't kind of break the oneway function。

 You can't kind of understand why they're not random， but they're not random。So we'll see that。

 actually。 we'll see that in next class on Monday， we will。See the exact construction。

Any other questions。Okay， so I want to say one more thing。

 and I want to give you an equivalent definition of a PRG。And this equivalent definition， first， I。

 I want to give it for two reasons。 reason number one， it's easier to work with。

 So when I'm going to construct a PR G， I'm going to argue that it satisfies。The this。

 the equivalent definition， which looks weaker。 It looks like a weaker definition。

But I'm gonna prove that it's equivalent。And so I， I， I propose that。

 I'm going show you this definition for two reasons。 A， because when I construct a PR G。

 I'm gonna to use this definition。But also， because when we prove the equivalentence of these two definitions。

 we'll use a tool that we use a lot in cryptography。 It's a very basic thing。

 Probably you've seen it in other classes as well， called the hybrid argument。

 So it's gonna be a way to kind of demonstrate this hybrid argument that you'll use all the time。

 So that's kind of why I want to show you。 These are the two reasons。

 let me give you the alternativeative definition。 So equivalent definition。

 Or let me call it another property there。 So this property is called， sorry。This property。

Is called super randomness。O， so one is expanding to pseudoandum。

So this property of G is that it's pseudoran。Let me give you another property。

So let me call it two prime。Okay， suppose instead of property 2， which is pseudoannyimmous。

 I give you another property and the other property。It's what's called next bit。Unpredictability。

And next bit of unpredictability， it basically says。That if you look at G of uniform。Output of G。

 which should be sort of random。 The guarantee is。That if you see the first， let's say I bit。

Of the output。You can't predict the next bit。Okay， so let me write it。It says that forever。I。So。

 okay， so for every adversary， for every poly size adversary。For every lamb。

And for every bit of the output， I in basically N of lambda。Oh， sorry， for every po of a。

 there is this in neligible function。 there exists。A negligible。Function new。Such to that。Okay。

 so for any adversary that tries to predict the next bit。He will fail。 There exists in that room。

Or he won't succeed except integral probability。 So there is this a negative probability such that for every Lada and for every eye。

 the bit he wants to predict the next bit he wants to predict。The probability。No， a get。G of uniform。

 but he only gets the first。I -1 B。This means this notation means。The first。I minus-1 Bs。啊不。

Of the output， of the view view。Okay， so the address we get to see。

He doesn't see the entire pseudo randomum string or the entire operative G。

 He gets only to see the first I -1 B。And he needs to get the ice。So his goal is to guess。I。

 this is the I。So he see the first I I-1 bit。And he tries to get the eyebit。And， of course。

 he can guess what probability we have。But not more than half。

Or only net his advantage over just guessing randomly is negligible。Okay。

 so this is called next bit unpredictability。Questions。Okay， so let's see why。

 why is it the case that。Why are they equivalent？ Why are these two definitions equivalent。

And look when we will construct the PRG。Next class。We will argue that。 it satisfies。

The next bit unpredictability。Which upar seems like a weaker definition。But。

 it's actually equivalent。Okay， so now let me。Property 2。Is equivalent。To property1。

 to property to prime。Okay， this is just a shorthand to writing that any。

Any PR G that that is pseudo randomum is also with unpredictability。

 And every one thatterfies next withpre unpredictability also satisfied the pseudoran mis condition。

 yeah。😊，Yeah， it is。The probability here is over U Lada。In 0，1 to the lambda。Yeah。

 U Lada is a string。 Yeah， its denote a string， a random string of a length Lada， things。Good。

 so right。 So it's， yeah， I'm， I'm going back and forth between the two。 Yes， exactly。 good。 Yeah。

 thanks， thanks for， for clarifying。 Yeah， here I mean， you're right。

 The adversary is given an element from this distribution。

 He's given like a randomly chosen element from this distribution。 and that's what he outputs。 Yes。

 that's what I meant， thanks。😊，Great， thank you。 Any， any other questions。

 These questions are really， really great。 So keep them coming。Okay。

 so I'm going to argue that these two are equivalent。So why are they equivalent？ Let's see。 Well。

 I want to argue the fact that  two。Implies to prime。It's really easy。This direction is easy。

And I don't really want to do it formally because I feel like it's an exercise。

 but let me tell you the intuition， why it holds。And the reason why， well， if you could。

 if so let's say I have a。A PR G that satisfy that pseudo random。Now， of course。

 it satisfies the next bit unpredictability。 Why， Because if it。

If I actually had anver that can predict。Let me do。

 this is adverary this some I and that eye he can predict。

Then how will I break the pseudo randomness？I take the Surranum string that you give me。

I run this at in the first I bit。 And I see if and the first I-1 bit。

 And I see if we predict the next one。If you predict it to random。If he didn't predict。

 I'm going to say it's random。 Now， if it's random， we can predict it's random。

 He really predicts this probability to have。And， but if it's sort random。Like if it's su randomum。

 then my adversary succeeds， assuming if this theft will fail。

 he succeeds for guilty half plus non negligible。And that's how I can distinguish kind of between being pseudo random and。

 and being next bit and end， and being random。Okay。

 so I encourage you to go at home to do this step kind of formally in your notebook。

And the reason I'm not doing it here， because I think you， you should be able to do it。Okay。

 and if you try to do this step and you fail， really try to do it formally。

 prove that two plus 2 prime。 If you fail， please come see me or one of the Ts and we'll help you。

Okay， but it's a really important exercise for you to do these things because it's。

Without you trying， you won't understand what you don't understand， you know。

If you understand what you don't understand， you're in good shape。

 But if you don't understand what you don't understand， that's the problem。

 And that's what these exercises are for。O， to make sure that you know if you don't understand。

 And if you know that you don't understand， then you should come to us and we'll help you out。Okay。

 so。Were good to go to the more difficult。2 crime implies，2。确定呀。反正。For my Syrian dinner。

The first lambmbda bits output。まそスペ。Good。From like uniform。Good， great， great question。

 Great great question。 So let me you're saying， maybe I have a PR G that if the first lambda bit types happened to be1。

 I know that the if the first， yeah， let's say lambda bit happen to be 1。

 I know for sure the lambda plus 1 B has to be 1。😊，Is that a problem for security。

 Would that be a breach。Anybody have an answer to that。 That's a really actually great question。

So you know what， let me give you heres， suppose there's a PR G。 Okay。

 I actually construct the PR G for you。 Now I'm going to change the PR G。And I'm going to change it。

It doesn't change anywhere。The first Lada which happened to be one。

If the input had the first level to be1， it just outputs all ones。So， n bit of one。Is it still a p。

 Did I moon it。呀。呀。Exactly， it's still a PR G。 It's not a problem because the probability。

That you will get an input here。Which has the first all the first lamb debate bits， all 1，1，1，1，1。😮。

That happens supposed one over two to the lamb。 That's very negligible。It goes down exponentially。

So you， you'll never see that event。So the adversary， he permanently bounded。 He gets one example。

 You know， he'll never see a random string that's 1，1，1，1，1。So that's not a problem。Great。

 great question。 That shows you cycling。 you're thinking about these things。Okay。

 so let's try to prove why next bit next bit unpredictability implies pseudo randomness。那。

It seems surprising at first， because So of random really means。Nobody can distinguish between。

 I mean， no polynomial signs， but everything everything is polynomial size in my world。 So really。

 it just looks uniform。 Everything looks you cant distinguish whatever you had you used with uniform。

 you can use with pseudo random。 whatever works for you with random should work with pseudoran。

 because nobody can distinguish like for all practical purposes， they's the same。Here。

I think they're the same。 I'm just saying you can't predict the next bit。

Maybe you can't predict the next bit， but somehow you can distinguish。咩。Like。

 it may seem that this is weaker， actually。But I'm going to prove to you that it's not weaker。

 It's actually as strong。Okay， so let's see why。 let me actually prove it to you。So， okay， so。

Suppose I have so let。G。啊，B。Let G， like satisfy。It's also， it's， it satisfied the expanding。

 but is or let Gb。Next， bit， unpredictable。I want argue that。 it's random。Okay。

 so I'm gonna take an aly。 So suppose it's not Su。Suppose I have an adversary that breaks the sort end。

Okay， so， so for contradiction， suppose。That it's， it is nice unpredictable。

 but it's not pseudo random。What does it mean， This means that there exists。An adversary， poly size。

And it's not， it's not pseudo randomum。 So there is this non negligible function。 It's un negligible。

 It's actually non negligible opt by epsilon。Such to that。When this adversary。Is given。Let's say。

 pseudo random。The probability that it outputs one。Versus the probability that output puts one。

When he's given random。Its at least epsilon。Okay， so it's。Such that。For every number。And this is。

Uniform。And this is uniform。Okay， so suppose it's not pseudoranum。

 So suppose I have apoliized adversary that when you give him the pseudoandum string。

Or you give them the really random string。ThereHere he output puts one with some probability。

 Here output puts one with another probability。There's a big gap between them， some nonnaural gap。

 epsilon。I'm going to show how I can use this a， this adary to break the next bit。

 I'm going to be able to break unpredictability。 The next bit， un predictdictability。

So how am I going to do that？诶。Okay， one second。Uses the location here。So， to do that。Let me denote。

This distribution。By， let me just make sure I'm consistent。 If that was H 0， H1。

 Let me to this distribution by。Hybrid N， I'll explain why in the uniform distribution。

 I'll do this distribution by hybrid 0。Okay， so the distribution will takes pseudo random。

It's a pseudo singlele length。 then I'm thennoted by this distribution by hybrid N。

 H N is the distribution。 The completely uniform den by H 0。And。What is H？H I。

where the first eye bits are like the pseudo random。 So the first eye bits。

I output like the Sudran generator dead。But the rest of them to do， truly random。Okay。

 so I'm going to look kind of at a hybrid between these two extremes。 So one the H N。

 everything is pseudoranum。 The entire thing is pseudoranum。H0， everything was completely random。

And now I'm going to look at kind of a hybrid between them。 That's why I call it H。E for hybrid。Okay。

 so I'm going to denote。 So let。HR。Be the distribution where the first Ids are generated exactly according to G of U of uniform。

 So G is。Distribution。Obtained。Where the first。First I bit。Are distributed。Like G of U。

 So therere pseudoranum。But the left and minus bit。And the rest。

Are truly random have nothing to do with the PR G。So， just uniformly random bit。Okay。Okay。

 so what do we know， We know above。That the probability。The anniversarydverary， when he's given like。

Element from the H and distribution from pseudo random。He outputs one with some probability。

The probability。Is something I don't know， but there's a difference between the probability that he outputs。

One here， and one here is El least some epsilon。So the dressary。

 there is some difference between the probability that he outputs one with a pseudoran versus the probability that outputs one with a random。

 That's my assumption。 Supp he broke pseudo randomist。Anybody guess where I'm heading here。

 what I'm going to do next。 Yeah， you find some like H like I I and each I plus one where there will be some。

Canect。He's starting breaking next year。Exactly， exactly。 I'm going to find， okay。

 these are if I have your H and H -1。I claimed that it exactly broke on predictability。

 So here I have n and 0。 But suppose I had a big gap between。

 suppose here I had I plus one and here I had I。Then I it's exactly this A breaks unpredictability because。

In H in i plus one， basically， it's the first。You can ignore the last。 The last bits are just random。

 So here， basically， he gets， he distinguishes between。Hey， one second。He distinguishes between。

The the n plus1 B being pseudo random。And here， he gets。

The end here he gets I plus one being pseudoran。 And here he gets I being pseudo random and the next random。

So basically， he can distinguish between whether the next bit is un random or random。Yes。

 so that's kind of the idea。 So we're going to try to first get a place where I have H plus one and H。

 That's where where we want to go。 And the way we're going to do this is it follows。

 This is just equal to。Some， I'm just going do a telescopic sequence。 It some of I goes from。1 to10。

啊，不。The probability。That a of H。阿姨。Equals one minus the probability。Of a。H I-1。Equals1。

So this is really the same because everything cancels out， except for H N H N here in H0。

 because it's just telescopic。And now I'm going to use triangle inequality。

To argue that this is small or equal to some of the absolute values。

So when I have a Apple value of sum。It's or equal It's more or equal to to the sum of the absolute values。

And now I know I have a sum of differences。And this sum is at least epsilon。

So this means that there exists one of these differences， at least。

Has to be of size at least epsilon over。Yeah， so this implies。This implies。That there exists， I。

Sa to that。This probability。The probability。The adversary， when he's given H。

It outputs 1 minus the probability where he is given H -1。It outputs one。Is that least？哎 on。O friend。

Because if all of them were smaller than Nepson and over end， you sum it and time。

 you'll get smaller than Nepson。But we assumed。😮，That this is bigger than Eon。

So as long as the stretch is not if N， if the stretch N is， is。

Is so I know that the stretch N is only polynomially related to lambda。

 Its said most size poly lambda because the gene was efficient。

 So you took lambda bits to N lambda bits。 N is the most polynomial in lambda。 So this is。

This is polynomial in NaA。And so this epson is not negligible， it implies。

Epsilon Lambda over N is also non negligible。And now。

 the fact that age can that age adversary can distinguish between two neighboring hybrids。

Implies that you can break the unpredictability。Now， I want to say this。Does not immediately imply。

 I mean， its， you need to do it a slight。Leleep。But here I said， a output the bit。

Here I say a can distinguish between the I bit and a random bit。It's not syntically the thing。

But it it it is actually the same。 You can go from one to the other very similarly to the way。

 like with encryption， we said or with computational and distinguishability that was there somewhere。

 but iss gone。 We say that。Like did predicting B is the same as kind of。You know。

 I'm giving you either encryption of M0 or encryption of M1， and your output1 is the same。

 And that's the same as giving you encryption of M B， and you need to predict B。

This is really why this。And these are the same。 But again， I， I will let you kind of on your own。

 take it from here。 if you have， if you know that an adverary can distinguish。

Between he's giving the first eye bits and the last bit， the first eye bits of pseudoandum。

 But the last bit the I bit is either。Fhilip to random or not flip and can distinguish。

Then you can make this adversary， actually。Gas div。

So I'll leave that as like a tiny leap for you again to do an exercise。 And again。

 I want to emphasize these these little assignments that I giving in a class its really important for you to check your understanding。

Okay， so if any of these little kind of assignments， you are。

 you don't you don't like you're stuck on， please， please come to us and we'll help you figure it out or to your classmates if you want。

 But， but it's important that you do them to make sure that you understand。Okay。

 let's take maybe a couple minute break to three minutes， and then we'll continue。对呀。

Start seeing that as the differences。A是。Why。Sorry， this is sorry。

So everything that this satisfies your all。Yeah。The idea is we are seeing that there is a place。せぽ。

没异议。嗯。故事这。没有。You're right。Good catch。这个。Becauses another nu ne。 Yeah。

 Just that this is because you to you some of。I probably don't be remembered。그러 내가。You' right wow。

 good catch。Okay， I'll pick。 I'll correct。 It' Very nice。 Very nice。Well。好。Then你个 total me水。5。

It may have you should correct me during class。 Don't wait till to the。 but great， great。

 Yeah I think very here。这らめ。Oh， good，没玩。いやや。Thank you。嗯。嗯。O。Let's continue。 So I lied to you。 A。

 I didn't even notice， but I made a mistake here that good for you for catching me。 Okay， let's see。

 What do we know， I wantna。Let's walk through this mistake。

 So I said the difference between hybrid n and hybrid 0 is at least epsilon。And then I said。

 let's look at the telescopic sequence。 It's the same because everything cancels out for H N and H 0。

And then I use the tri inequality。So so far， so good。 Here I have some over n kind of differences。

And the end differences I know together is at most epsilon。This means that there exists an I。That。

The theirgo and I， that。This difference is at most。Apple friend。That's fine。Anybody see， it's a very。

 by the way， this mistake is a good one to point out because it's a delicate mistake that we make all the time。

 Okay， so it's actually maybe a good thing I made this mistake。 So now。😊，So， O。

 so there exists an eye。 So there exists an eye。 What's wrong here。东西。呀。It's true。 You're right。

 You're right。 So the fact that this is non negligible。We。

 were relying on the fact that n is polyly related to Lada。Actually。It may not be true。

That there exists。And I。That fisfies this。The translate this inequality。O， let you say， why。

 why doesn't there exist in， Why is it that the case necessarily。

Will of you left hope for all themda， it may be the case for each。X。Exactly， what we can say。

For every land， there exists in I。ForSo this is， you fix lambda。 We have N N sums。

 The n sums is at least epsilon。So。At least one of them is a size epsson over Lada epsson of where sorry because there's Epsson over。

 But for every lambda， I may be different。So their exist I that depends on one that this holds。

It's not the same eye。 So now， wait， but I'm thinking you。

 I'm gonna break unpredictability with which I。Every and now every under of an night。

What I'm going to do。喂。😮，O， you， you， you're basically right。 You're saying， still。

 I'm going break one of them。But which one am I going to break， actually。You don't care。

 You're right。 But let me tell you which one you're gonna to break。Take my eye。

That appears kind of O， if， if you always get the same eye， you're done。 if I is always one。

Takeick the eyes that kind of appears the most， basically。So you need the I that will， so。You can。

 but， but in sometimes you're right， you， it， you're saying either makes the most doesn't make sense because it's an ayhartic thing。

 So basically， O， so basically。What we can say， the， the formal way to say this。Is that a。诉こに。Sorry。

 one second。 Actually， O， sorry I take it back， I take it back。 Yeah， this I can depend on Lambda。

 That's fine。😊，That's fine。I actually， okay， you write this I depend on number。

 but the eye is not fixed。O， it's a different eye for every lambda， but that's not a problem。 Okay。

 but we need to make sure we understand that's a different eye for every lambda。 The question is。

 why is it not a problem。Because the next bit on predictability says that for any polyms has adversary。

 any lambmbda and any either independent Lada。So to break unpredictability。

 I need to show an adversary。And for that， there exists an adversary and。Okay， so to break this， I。

 to break the net and predictability， I need to show that there exists。Adversary。And such that。

For every negligible or， or okay， there does not exist。

 There There does not exist a negligible function that satisfies this。

The fact that there does not exist an eligible function basically means for every aim。So。

 what we want to say。Good， so we want to say that there exists a non negligible function。Not there。

 you， you can do。 there's a nonable function。That such that， So there does not exist。

 There is non negligible。So that for every land。I'm going to show you an I of Bda。There exists。

 I'm going to show you an eye of Lada。So that this is greater。They' non negligible。 So basically。

 what I showed you， I showed you。I broke it by showing that there exists。A polyly signs。A。

And there exists。I'm not negligible。Appon。And for every lambda， there exists some I。

That you broke it。And this is precisely。 okay， this is precisely de neation。

 I want to say one thing about a。I'm trying to see patient should。

To show the negation here actually formally， it's a bit cumbersome。

 I don't want to do it too formally， but again， it's important exercise to do because to show the negation。

 really， what you want to say is that there exists a polynomial size。😊，哎。And for every。Possible。

 negligible。 What is it， So for every。So that for every possible negligible。So what is negligible。

 Negligible says that you're something that you're smaller than。Than any possible polynomial。 Okay。

 there exists。Some Lada， and some I。That you'll be bigger than the negligible。So basically。

 we want to say that。Okay， let me leave it because I really want to finish the， the a。

Like how why this pseudo randomness gives us what we want。 the generator。 So let me leave this。

But if， if try to see try to see why this implies in that bit unpredictability。Okay。

 if you have problems， come talk to us。 I can， if， if needed。

 I can show it again in the beginning of next class。But if you figure it out on your own。

 it's better。 And then we can just move on。 So again， I'm leaving it as a little home。

 a little exercise。 why this is enough。 And indeed， eyes and I is a function of lambda。

 That's indeed the case。O， so let me finish in the last 10 minutes。 I'll try to show。

 or at least start why So randomness is enough。Why do I get the encryption I wanted。

So are my goal is to get this， this。I had my encryption scheme。

So how let's construct the encryption scheme。Yeah， so the encryption is pretty easy at this point。

 So let me just write it the encryption。 So the message space。That I'm going to use is going to be。

So you tell me the message base。 So let's say the message base is the easier one to the N。

So this is going to be for me。0，1 to the n of lambda could be。Poly lambda。 Yeah， many bits。

And this is going to be。0，1 to the lambda。 And this is gonna be also 0，1。To the N of Nada。

 So we're gonna have message space big and cyber textex the same， And it's bigger than the key。

 That's what I promised you。So N is going be polynomial number。ok。Okay， so what's my encryption。

 my encryption。Takes a key。And the message and what it will do， it will do the one time pad。

 as we discussed。So we will take the， but he'll do the one time pad。And the extended key。So。

 take a G。A the key and Xor with a message。 So I'm giving you an encryption scheme， assuming a PR G。

So， I assume。I have the G。Is a PR G。That takes lambander bits。The in debate bit。

If I have appeared you with this stretch。喂。I have an encryption scheme。That has。

 that has keys of size lambda。And encrypts long messages of size n Lada。And basically。

 what I do is exactly the one time pad， but then the extended key。Yeah， and the decryption is。

How write thept？Exactly， I take。Again， you have pay and I add to the Cypherexex。中。

Correctness is exactly as before。 if you decrypt。This message， the G can G K。

 the key will cancel out， and you'll get the message back。Okay， so correctness is easy。

I want to prove。Thats that it's secure。So I， my goal is to prove security here。And the way。

 the way I prove security so。So claim。The scheme is secure。Assuming。G is a PR G。If。

 if Jesus did a PV， then it's secure。How do I prove this？So first， congratulations。

 you guys are after your first reduction。The proof was by reduction。 Remember。

 in the first class I told you， this class will be， you'll see a lot of definitions。

 you'll see assumptions， and you'll see reductions。So you saw definitions。You， I mean。

 you saw some assumptions like this assuming one we function or assuming PR Gs exist。

 We didn't give any construction， but you saw some。 Now we were show the first reduction。

So I'm going to prove this。 I'm going to say， if you can break the scheme。

Then I'm going to break the PR G。对，So。So suppose there exists an adversary that breaks the skin。

So suppose。For contradiction。That there exists uponide's adversary。That is given， let's say。

 encryption。Of key。 Oh， sorry。This adversary， this is a poly size。 Okayk。

 I'm doing a lot of shortcuts here。So there exists apoliized adversary， a nu and non negligible。

Function， epsilon。And， and for every lambmbda， he chooses M0 and M1 of Lambda。And for every lambmbda。

 for every。嗯。We call it M of Lambda， which is messages of Li N。 Sose the Drary A。

When hes giving encryption。K of M B。Gueses B with good probability with probability， let's say。

 bigger than epsilon。Okay， this is over randomand B。And over a random key。Yes。

 so suppose I have an adversary。And a unable Lada。 And for every lambda。

 I have a pair of messages in the message space or pair of messages of LinkedIn。

And if I encrypt a random one of them。Aryptted with good probability。 He guesses the be。

I'm going show that I can use this adversary to break the PR G。Okay。

 so now my goal is to break the PR G。Note， what is this， this encryption， just by definition。

 this is the probability。That a， an input G of k。X or and B。啊不自。That's the thing。 Oh， sorry。

 half plus negligible。Have。Let me write it better。You can always guess be with probability have。

But suppose he guesses be probably better than half。 He has a non negligible kind of advantage。

In guessing we。No。I want to use them to break the PR G。Okay， so I have an adversary。

Then when he gets an encryption of N B。He's able to guess beam with property better than random guessing。

Much better， like not neably better。I want to use this adsary to break the PR G。

How am we going to use them to break the PR G。So， note。Instead of this。

 if instead of giving him a pseudoran。2。elementlement， if I replace this by uniform。

Suppose I I this is pseudoran because the key is random and 01 to the lambda。

 So this is pseudo random。Now， when it's sort random when you exhort with M。

 he guesses be with some probability much better than half。Suppose I replace this with a uniform。

 What would be the probability that he guess has be in that case。Because I completely。B is gone。

 Basically， if this was completely uniform， then this together was completely uniform。 It's like。

 it's just the uniform distribution。 So B is gone。So if this was uniform。

 he guess with a probability。😊，But if this is pseudourranum。All of a sudden。

 he guess we're probably better than half。So how will I now。

 what will be my adversary that breaks the pseudo randomness。My adversary B。

 So I'm going to construct adversary B。That breaks the pseudo randomnymous。In my adverary。

 he will get R， and he will say if it's random or pseudoran。What will he do， He will。

Look at so he will compute。So he choose， he will choose B at random。

He will look at what he will run compute A。And our。X or， M B。He got some B prime。Now， he will say。

Equal to be prime。I'm going to say pseudo random。Output。Let's say one， meaning like Suuran。

That's my meaning for one。And if。B is different from B prime。Then alpha 0， meaning kind of uniform。

从蚂。Given that adversary that breaks the encryption。

Infin an adversary that distinguishes between a pseudoand string and a random string。How。

I for everyone， I have these M and M ones that。That were fit by the adversary。

And now I'm gonna choose the random B on my own。 I interested they've got a random or pseudo random。

 I'm gonna choose B。And I'll see。If A succeeded in guessing B。If I was random。

 he should succeed only probably half。Of course， because it's gone。 Now， if I sooner random。

 turns out he succeed probably better than half。So Im now I can， I can tell if he succeeded or not。

 because I chose B。I chose B。 I see it outs V again。And outputs B again。It's much。 It's more likely。

 like epsilon， more likely。That是坐到人。Yeah， so this is the B。

 And now one needs to only argue that the probability。That B。

And sooner and if you give him sooner random。The probability that outputs one is bigger。

 minus the probability that it outputs one。With random。Is bigger than。Ca here you're gonna have half。

Well， I'll let you do it。Like this is， this should just be simple。

 So he succeeded in guessing which random random probability with nanoal probability。 Okay。

 we'll continue to construct PR Gs on Monday next week。

