# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p12 6.5620 Lecture on 10⧸8⧸2025 (Wed).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p12-

嗯。Okay。okay， so by the way， I should tell you， I'm gonna leave like right after class。

 Like I'm gonna run at right after class because I have a flight to catch。 So sorry。 But next class。

 I'll be here， you know， after to ask to answer questions。 And also， if you need me just email me。

 and， you know， I can meet never。Okay， so where are we？

So last time we kind of talked about how to get from one time secure schemes signature scheme to a many time secure signature scheme。

诶。And and also a one time secure signature scheme， at least with long messages。

 we showed how you can get it from collision resistant hash functions。 But actually。

 we even know how to do it from one way functions。 It's just the proof It's more complicated。

 But actually， you don't even need collisions in hash。 You can get by was just one way function。

 Okay， so actually， we know how to construct signature schemes like Gistentia and forugable security against adaptive chosen message attacks。

 So the security guarantee we want。From only one way functions。Okay， so basically。

 even though we proved it for collision resistance。So basically。

 everything we've shown so far in class， we can get from one way functions。 Okay。

 we started with symmetric encryption， Mac， and then of course。

 all the PRG and PRF and then signature schemes， everything from one way function。

 And that's really the minimal assumption。😊，Okay， without when we function。

 none of these things exist。Great， so we're kind of。Very elegant and nice。

 So this kind of lala land is ending today when we're moving to public key encryption。 Okay。

 or when we're kind of entering the tunnel of public key encryption。😊。

And there we're kind of gonna leave kind of the beauty of one way functions。

 C resistance and so on and dive into kind of， you know， number theory or various kind of math。

 specific mathematics that we' kind of need to work with。😊。

And there was a review on Monday for number theory right was last Monday。 was a review。

 there's the review notes on the website， if you need them。 So I'm gonna run through things。

 I'm going to tell you what you need to know what I'm going to run through it very quickly。

 So if you feel unsettled with it， please， is it recorded the review。

So theres a recording of the review session you can look at and also the handouts that you can read。

 And if you have any questions on， just come to us mirror or the Ts。Okay。

Now we're entering kind of the tunnel of， of public encryption。 And the first thing we're gonna do。

 and that's gonna be the focus of today's lecture， is key agreement。So when we do public encryption。

 the goal is， as opposed to symmetric encryption。 Now we don't want to meet and agree on a key。 Okay。

 so how do we encrypt each other messages。Without ever meeting and agreeing kind of whispering to each other a secret key in our ears。

 How do we do that。And one of the kind of ideas。 And this was actually proposed in a really beautiful paper that kind of embarked kind of the a public key cryptography。

 which is。😊，Ill remember the name a。KI think new directions in cryptography， it's by Dphian Heman。

And they proposed basically what they， they proposed， won't be wonderful。

If we can do this kind of cryptography without ever meeting。 Okay， so in a public key。

 now they didn't know how to do it， they didn't know how to。

 They proposed the idea of constructive signature schemes， but they didn't construct it。

 They just proposed the idea of having it。 They proposed the idea of public encryption。

 but they didn't construct it。Okay， so it was kind of， heres， that's what I call new directions。

 Here's a direction。 Wouldn't be great if we have these things。

They gave kind of intuition for why it should be possible。

But they didn't actually construct anything。 What they did construct is a key agreement。 Okay。

 so what is a key agreement protocol。So。So here the goal is。We have kind of two parties。

 Alice and Bob。They never met。Okay， and theyre talking over a public channel so any eavesdper can listen to what they say。

Their goal is to agree on a secret key。Okay， so goal。😮，Alliceison Bob。Want。To agree。On a secret key。

You call it key， let's say。And0，1。To the lambda。While only talking via a public insecure network。

 Okay， so on a public kind of channel。While communicating。Over。Public channel。So， basically。You know。

 we have Alice and Bob。Is can send a message to Bob。Bob can send the message to Alice。

They can talk more than just two messages， if you want。They should both know a key。

That for an adversary who sits here for an。Her eaves drop her eve， who kind of reads the messages。

That they extent， that they assent to each other。Eve should have no idea what K is。 So from。

 from Eve's perspective。After kind of listening to their communication。

If you give her the key or you give her a completely random R。

 she doesn't know which is the key and which is not the key。Okay。

 so the key should look completely random to her。Now， if we manage， yeah，Exactly。

 once you have a key， we're done。 we can do Mac。 We can do encryption。 We can do everything we want。

Communication to agree on the key doesn't leak anything。Like not necessarily doesn the leak。Other人。

Good， so good。 So the question is， aren't you concerned about something else that's leaked here。

 And the point is， I'm never going use what's So the only thing so。Can agreement protocol？

The only thing I'm going to use。From then on is the key。This is public for me。 So what I want。

 I want to have a key agreement protocol with， with a phone guarantee。Even given this。

 this is public， everybody knows for communication。Looks completely random。So， now。

No everybody knows it。 the world knows it。 Good now this is like a completely random key。

 So now we're going to encrypt using this key。Of course， by the way if we want a Mac。

 we're not going to use also the same key， we're going to do a key agreement degree and a different key to Mac because。

Key is for one， know because we prove security， if the only thing。For encryption， weproof security。

 the only thing we see is ciphert or decryption oracle。 If you do Cyphert， and Mac。

 am turnsn of things leak， we have no security。 So always remember。We use a key for one。

 if you want to Mac and you want to encrypt， you use different keys。Okay。

 but you can always take this key， of course， and expand it using a PRG to many kids。Okay。

 so this is the question。 Okay， the question is， can we talk， communicate？

That even someone who sees this communication。They have no idea what the kids。

Okay questions about the， the， the goal here。 And then， of course。

 we can use this key to to then encrypt or to Mac。Okay， is the goal clear？Okay。

 I just want to mention one thing。 We're gonna focus on passive adversary， so。We're assuming。

The communication is public。Okay， but I'm not concerned with an eve who kind of taamppers with a communication。

O， I'm only gonna be concerned with an eavesdroroppper。

And the reason I'm not concerned about an eve that actually taamppers。Is because， well。

 we already know that we can do signature schemes publicly， right？ So as long as you know。

 Alice and Bob kind of somehow agree， I know， I'm Alice。

 I know Bob's public key for a signature scheme， a verification key。

 And he knows my key for verification。Then we know that Eve can't tamper as soon as she tries to。

 because now I'm going to send him my message with a signature。So， we are ready。

Showed that we can do signature schemes as long as you， you know what my verification key is。Okay。

 so I have a public verification key。 You know what it is。 I put on my website or whatever I。

 you know， was kind of signed by some authorities。 somehow。 You know what it is。 Now。

 we don't need to worry about someone tampering with our messages because you know。

That an adversary cannot generate signature a signature on the message that I didn't send。So now I'm。

 so because of that， I can only focus on passive adversaries。Okay。

 so I'm not going to talk about signatures。 at the end。

 we're going to deal with an active adver that tries to change by appending a signature。 But for now。

 I'm just worried about an eavesdropper that just listens。O。😊，Questions？Okay， good。

 So the question is， can we do this， Is this something we can actually do。And， of course。

Also kind of to signature key to。a little bit paradoxical because you' saying， wait。So。

Bob like Alice sends Bob a message。 But what distinguishes Bob from an evil。

Bob has some secret that he knows that Eve doesn't know。So kind of whatever。You know。

 whatever key Bob learns， why can't he learn the key。Like， what distinguish， like why。

Hard thing to do。So first， let me tell you， it is a hard thing to do。 And indeed。

 we don't know how to construct Weta this day， we do not know how to construct a key agreement from anyone we function。

 from any collision resistant hash function。 We know how to construct for very specific kind of algebra number theory。

Okay， and that's kind of why we need to now dive into a little bit of number theory in order to construct this thing。

 But this is exactly what D Hman constructed in their paper。Okay， so。So with that。

 let me do some a little bit of kind of number theory。 The background will need for this。

 And then we'll construct this scheme。Yeah， questions。Okay， so。Okay， so。scheme to construct。

 I'm going to thank you the Difffialmanki agreement。This was posed in 76。By the way。

 before I give the construction， I just want to say one thing。 you know， So they。

 this construction shows how to agree on a secret key kind of publicly。Going from here。

To encryption scheme。Using their scheme is like。A trivialviity， really。

 I can even give you as a homework assignment。 It's really easy。But interestingly。

 they didn't notice it in their paper。 They left kind of constructing public encryption as an open problem。

Moreover。A couple years later， in '78 came RSA， which is kind of the encryption signature schemes。

 both public encryption and signature that were used all over the web for many， many。

 many years and still are used。Totally different technique。Completely different techniques。

And only several years later， like I'm 8 some。 El Gamal noticed that actually。

 this pretty much immediately gives you a public encryption。And he gave thegamal scheme。

 It is kind of interesting how it took him so long to notice， like a trivial observation。

But what we what we' do， we're going to do we're going to show this key agreement。

 and then we're going to define public encryption and give you the algamal encryption， which is。

 again， it's like a simple corollary of the scheme。Okay， so for key agreement。 So。

 so the building block of this key agreement is we'll need a group。 It based on some。Group G。

 a finite group G。And we want the group， the group that we rely on to have several properties。

 For now， you can think of the group as being like Z P star for concreteness， where。

 which is the group of elements， think of pis a prime。1 up to P -1， and multiplication。Mkey。Okay。

 so what we want from the group， We want a couple things。 First of all， we want it to be。

The compute operations or multiplication should be efficient given。Any A and B in the group。

It should be efficient。Plonial time to compute。Any times。 Well， this is the operation in the group。

Okay， also， and okay， so just note。The fact that this is efficient， this implies。

Let's denote group G， let's the order。 Let me see how I denoted the order。 A one second。

 Just want to be consistent with my notation， okay。I don't know。 Okay， so。

Note that this implies that for any kind of okay immunocologyNH。

 because that's how I use A& D for other things， sorry。Also， note that for any。He。And any exponent A。

In like the size of the group。One can efficiently compute G to the A。Where G to the A is just。😮。

G times G times G。E times。So this is a， if you can efficiently compute separation。

 you can officially compute this now note if you just do G times G times G。

 it's really inefficient because okay， think of the group of size。This is of size， roughly。没标出来的题。G。

Think of it is roughly sized to the lambda。Okay， that's going to be the size of the groups we're working with。

 So if you take G times G times G2 to the lamb times。That's not efficient。 Okay， but instead。

What we do is repeated squareries。Okay， that's the technique。

 So the way you compute this efficiently is you compute like a G， G squared。

 and then you square this， G to the fourth， you square this G to the8。And so on。

So this just takes you Lada。And then to compute D to the A。You just multiply， basically， G to the。

2 to the eye for all the I， such that AI is one。Okay， so just to the binary decomposition。 Okay。

 so this is efficient。Okay， so that's one。 the other thing you want。

Is that it's efficient to compute the inverse？Of an element。So。Given。Any G。One can efficiently。

Compute。G inverse？So the element that if you multiply by two， you get the identity。

And just to mention in Z P star， this can be done using the extended Eucliide algorithm。

 So you can actually do this efficiently。 So in Z P star。This is done using。Extended。

Euclid algorithm。So basically， what you do， you take G。And you take P。

And you find that the the extended Euclid finds， helps you find A And B。So to that。

A times G equals B times sorry plus B times p is one because the GCD is1。 the G CD of this is one。

 so gives you coefficients， and this is the G inverse。O， because this smart P is 0。

 So you get that this is one mark P。So point is， you can do this efficiently in Z P star。

 If you like that example to keep in mind。EOkay， good。 The other thing you want to G。

Is to becyclical。And what we mean by cyclic that there exists one element。

 There exists a generator that generates this group， namely， there exists a G。In인지。Such that。

 you can generate the entire group G by taking just 1 G G squared。Up to。

So if you just take all the the exponents of G， that generates the entire group。 Okay。

 that's called thecyclical group。Okay， so we wanted to becyclt。 What else oh。

 and the most important thing。Is that we want the discrete log problem to be hard， so。

Let me tell you what this is。This is going to be our heartless assumption。

And the discrete flow pump says the following。 it says that if you take。Aro。Generator。He。

And a random。Element。X。Between 1，2，3 up to the link up up to the size of the group。Then， given。

Basically， given this G and G to the x。It is hard。To find that。Okay， so think of。

 of of the function that， or in other words。Okay， let me go here。 In another words。

 look at the function F。And the group G。That takes kind of a generator。And the next。哎。

Like think of it takes as input a random generator。 so it's only over generators。And x。And output。

Let's say G and G to the x。This。Its easy to compute by by the exponation take trick。

But the assumption is that it's hard to convertt。Okay， so it's kind of a one way function。Now。

 it's weird the way I wrote it， because the the in the。This function goes over all the generators。

And like， this is in。But it's like， what do you mean know about， what is this。

 What is this set of generators， It's a bit hard to kind of think about。But， let me tell you。

If this is the one where if given a random G and X。Given， I guess G and G to x， it's hard to find x。

 If it is a one- way function in that sense， then so if the discrete problem is hard the way I wrote it。

 that given a random G and a random generator G and G to x， it's hard to find x。

Then let me just write it aporollary。Is that for every generator。G。If you look at the function， S。

Like it depends on Jesus Jesus。Generators know。 Everybody knows what it is。 It's fixed。

This function that takes is input X。And now puts G to that。So if the function goes from。1，2，3。

 up the size of G。To the group。This function is a one way function。Okay， so the fact that。

For a random gene， it's hard to invert。For for a random generator G， it's hard to invert。Imps that。

Any generator G。It's hard to invert。Okay， why， let's see why that's the case。So why is it。

 Because suppose for a second。 So let me give you like a put。Proof of this。So， suppose。

That there exists some generator。Let me call it H。Such that， actually， going from H。To the X。

 to X is easy。So you know the group G， let's say ZP star， you know， oh， sorry。You know。

 the generator， H， it generate the entire， these are fixed。Now， suppose I have an algorithm。

 Suppose I have an algorithm A。That given H of x for random X。Pineex。

 So we solve the discrete lock problem for this specific generator。

So this is an a rate that depends on it。 It's for one in。

So suppose there exists some very specific generator。One， very， very specific one。So therefore。

 just this。You can solve the discrete log problem。Then I argue， I want to say this implies。That。

There exists。😮，Efficient， so let's say， suppose if there is an efficient A。

That solve the discrete law problem with9 probability。

Then I want to argue that there is an efficient B。That giving G and G to the x for random G。

Random generator。Solves X also with nonex property。Okay， so if therere this。Genator。

Then you can solve the discrete plug problem。Then you can solve the discrete problem， on average。

And that's kind of our assumption。 You cannot solve it on average。Okay， why is it？

So what would we do。B gets his input G and G to that。He needs to use A。Any idea what would he do？呀。F。

第一页。バラ？Exactly， exactly。 So he will first run a。An inputG。And get some A。 Let me call it A。

 A is just so。You know， let me cotton。Yeah， let me call it let me call it alpha I think that's what I call it。

 So alpha should be。 if he succeeded， it should be that G that H to the alpha。

Is G because he solved the discrete lock。Now， we're also gonna run a。And this G to X。

And he's going to give me some beta。 And the hope is what it should be is that agent of beta is G to x。

Now， if suppose a succeedes with probability， non knowledge probability epsilon。

Then I want to say both of these succeed。 So this succeeds probably apson because Gs random。

And this succeeds with probability。Exon because X is random。 So it's independent。

So this succeed property roughly atpsson squared。And， and if it succeeds。

 then now we can easily find X by just taking it to be。Is it。So。Yeah， so I guess G。To the X。

Is by this， it's H to the alpha x， which is also H to the beta。

 So it means that x should be beta times alpha in。If I didnt make a mistake。H vectorta P to the x。呀。

呀。他是一样的。就 so。Good， good， good， good， good。 Okay， you caught me。 So this thing， Yeah。

 so what you're saying is， you're saying， look。He gets a random。啊。I know that A succeeds。

 If this is a random。Eleement in G。Here I gave it a generator。 Maybe on generators。

 He doesn't succeed， and he only succeeds to invert。And kind of elements here who are not generators。

You're right， actually。 So this proof only works。 You're right。

 You called me this proof only works for a。For groups of prime order。 So let me fix what I said。

 coronary。G。Is of prime order。Then。And now， the reason is。If G is of prime order。

 then n element except for one。Is a generator， because every element。

 the order of the element divides the order of the group。 But if a group is primeed， there's。

Nothing divides the parameter for one。So good catch， thank you。Soon enough。

 we're going to only focus on primoral groups。So I kind of got ahead of myself。 But， yes， this。

 this is true only for prim groups。Great， so， okay， good。 So， so as I said。

 one example of groups that we believe that the discrete log problem is hard。😊，Is Z P star。

 That's an example。 Okay， By the way， we believe it's hard only not for all people even。Okay， so。

 for example。So。CP star is， first of all， it's not a prim order group。O， itp starts a group of order。

P -1。 It's very easy to get confused and think it's order P， but the elements are 1 to3 up to P -1。

 So Z P star。Is a group of order p -1？Yeah， order P -1。诶。And we believe。 So now you can ask， is it。

 is it true that for any P， we can， we believe that the discrete log problem is hard。

 So the answer is， no， actually， we have。We have actually counter examplesles of prime P that we don't think discrete log holds。

 but we do believe it holds for a random prime P。Okay。

 so we believe this script log problem holds for random prime P。

 So one way to get these things is choose a random prime P and the group will be Z P star。Okay。

 however。Now， you can ask， okay I choose a random。 How do I choose a random prime P。

I can choose a random number。 but how do I know if it's prime。

So it turns out we have prim details tests。 There are efficient ways of checking if a number is prime or not。

 Again， it's in the handout。 I'm not going to review them， but actually， it's really beautiful。

 very beautiful number theory。😊，So， so the way we generate this group because we're gonna to use this group is what we're gonna to do。

 We're gonna generate a prime， a generate random lambda bit number。 check if it's a prime。

 If it is good， if not， we try again。Actually， let me say this is not enough。

 This group is not enough。 We need one more restriction in our setting。And the restriction is。

 we want the group actually to be bless you， to be of prime order。This is not a prime order。Okay， so。

So actually， you know， let me write it here。What we want。To be more specific。We want a group G。嗯。

Order。And let me denote it by Q。 Q is gonna be just my notation for the number of elements in the group。

So this is not it。Okay， so how do I， But I want a primor group。 So what do I do。So。First。

 let me just say。In practice， people don't use。This kind of groups。

 And the reason they don't use these groups。Is because。

We plot problem in these groups when we do believe it's hard。We don't believe it's super， super hard。

 What do I mean， So one way to solve a discrete street cloud problem。

Is to go over all the possible Xes in general。So you give me G and G to the x。 I'm going to go， okay。

 it is this G， Is it G squared， Is G G to the third， I it G to the fourth， eventually I'll hit it。

Okay， that takes time to the lamb。 Forget it。Can we do better than that。

So it turns out for any group， we can do a little bit better， but not much。Ok。

 we can do like the two to the Lada over2。So tiny bit better。

But turns out for the specific group of Z P star， we can actually do much better。😊。

Still not polyial time algorithm。 It's still hard。The best algorithm we have。 So for Zy star。

The best algorithm we have is called number field set。And。

It can solve the discrete load in time roughly。I'm。 I'm without kind of constants。

 also without constant exponents。 iss something like。2 to the lambmbda， to the third。Time。

 something small like。哇。Lambda to the two thirds。And there's some constant here， so。

So we can do actually better。 It's still a sub exponential time algorithm。

But it's not it's not to the Laover， too。Okay， this is a real improvement。 Its a real speed up。Now。

 there are other groups which we're not going to talk about in this class at all that with。Groups。

 we have。We don't have speedups like that。Okay， so we can do。We can。

 the best algorithm we have is the tour of the Landover2。And these are called elliptic curve groups。

 It's based on very different type of mathematics。We're not going to cover in class。

 but just to tell you， these are the ones used in practice because they， you can basically。

 because you don't have。The sub algorithms， the security parameter you can take in theiptical groups is much smaller。

 So everything becomes much more efficient。Because here you have this kind of algorithm。

 you need a much bigger lambda。And then like， things become much less efficient。

But I'm going to teach this， because it's just。More beautiful， in my opinion。 And this is a theory。

 foundation class， so。O。So， okay， so then so， but but。So elliptic curves。

 we have prime motor or elliptic curves。 Okay， so groups of prim order here， we also need prim motor。

 but Z P star is not prime。So what do we do， We take a subgroup of the Z P star。 Okay。

 so what do we take， So we want a prime order group。So we take a subgroup。A Zp star。

So how is that done？😮，So here's what I'm going to do。 What we choose actually， we choose。

 We don't use any prime P。 So together。We're going to get a subgroup。Prime order。Ce。

And the way we do this is， as follows， we choose。P。Not only you that piece prime。 we choose a prime。

P。Such that。Equal to 2 Q。Plus， one， where Q is prime。So， basically， you choose P。

So that P -1 over 2 is prime。Okay， this is called a safe plan。

And the queue here is called Sofi germain prime。After the famous mathematicians Sohi Jermain。Okay。

 now why am I choosing it like this， because now we know the order， if we choose it this way。

 then know the order of the group。I。To you。So it has only two to subgroups， one of order。

2 and one over order Q。So what so how we。 So now let me tell you our group G。What we're going to do。

 we're going to take the group G to be all the x， all the squares。

 all the squares so that x is in Z P star。And half of the elements in ZP star are squared。

 So this group。Is a primoral group。And it's still easy to compute multiplication and inverse。

 And it'scycl click in the discrete problem。So we have everything。 We just focus on a subgroup of。

 of half the size。Okay， now you can ask， oh， wait， are safe prime。 So two things。 A。

 how do we know how， how can you find a say， Are there enough safe， Are there safe crime。

Are there infinitely many safe， How do you find the safe crime。And the answer is， actually。

 we actually don't know if they're infing many， safe crimes。It's an open question。

But it turns out that empirically， when we。Choose a random element， and test。If it's a safe frame。

We find the safe prime， very fast。Okay， so empirically， the number of safe primes， let's say。

 among all the like two to the Lambda。Numbers， it's something like。Poly log Lada。

 I think even Lada log square Lada。So theres a lot of safe primes， turns out empirically。Okay。

 and how do we test prime how do we find them， Well， I'm gonna choose a random number。

 a random lambda bit number。I'm going to test if it's prime。 That's the first thing。

 If I'm going to throw it away。 And if it is prime， I'm going to subtract one。

I'm going to divide by two， and I'll take this is prime。If not。

 I'm going to the road away then try again。 And it turns out empirically。

 if I do that for like log squared or something time， I find one。Okay， so now。Now， okay。

 so now I told you I want to construct this key agreement protocol。

Before we start the key agreement protocol， we're going to choose a group。Of prime order。

 So we you know choose a random P thats to say prime and then the order and then the group who uses all the residues。

 or we agree on some elliptic curve or whatever the group is。

 but now I'm going assume that I have a group of prime order for which you know you can efficiently compute demo the operation and the inverse and acyclulate and the discrete log problems are。

I just want to mention one thing that I didn't say that that I I told you that discrete log problem is is hard for random P。

 but it's not hard for all P。So I'll tell you the the piece for which the discrete log problem is known to be easy。

Is if。If P -1， which is the order of the group。If it factors to only things with very if it factors。

 if the largest， okay， if the largest， if， if you do that， if you take the prime factorization。

And the largest prime， let me call it Q。Then basically， you can。

 you can solve the discrete log problem。In time like this， where this is like roughly Q。

 where two in the lamb is Q。So basically， you can solve a discrete log problem。

In you take the largest。 So it's Q。Is the largest divider？The largest。Prime factor。

Then solving this street log problem here is like solving this street log problem in。ZQ star。

So if all the factors are very， very small， it becomes easy。Okay， so really。

 the discrete log problem is hard If P -1 has some large prime。And safe prime， I like the best。Like。

 you can't have a bigger prime than p-1 over2。Okay， so， but random prime also。

 we expect to have large for random prime P， P-1 should have a large prime factor in there on average。

Okay。So， questions， yeah。Why， why do't sorry again。Exactly， that's what we do。 Basically。

 we agree on one time that's second that's it。 We use that。And like today。

 when people want to do this thing， they have these safe prime sitting there and these libraries。

 And that's what they use。 Indeed， we agree。 And once they prime that， you use that all the time。

Exactly。Great questions。Okay， so let's look at the at the key exchange。

So the key exchange protocol is really easy。 It's like amazing how easy it is， like the basic idea。😊。

Okay， so。We agreed on a group G。 So we have a group G。Of order。Q。

Pa like Z P star for we take all the Puerto residues in Z P star where Ps a safeguard。

 So we agreed on this。Now， here's what we do。 And we agree on a generator G。Now。

 how do we find a generator， take a random element。 It's a generator。

 Any element that's not one is a generator。Okay， so take whatever it doesn't matter because as we said。

 if we， you can choose a random G， you can choose a arbitrary G。 It doesn't matter。

 F a G is a generator， or it can be any element that's at one。 Any element is a generator， okay。

So we help me that。Okay， now， and this does and this it's not nothing about it a secret。

 Like everybody knows it。 Even Alice can send it to Bob Don， look， this is our the group。

 This is the generator。 He just checks to make sure it looks good。 Okay， now what do we do。

 So here's danger。Alice will choose a random element。I random。Element between one of the queue。

And she will send。G to the A to B。Okay， let me call this name。So this is Alice。This is Bob。

And she sends him。Due today。Bob will do the same。 he chooses a randomand B。你签子。G to the be。Now。

 remember， there's an eve sitting here。She sees G to the and G to the B。 She doesn't know A And B。

 because discrete log is hard。Okay， but you see Z And B。But Alice also doesn't know little B。

 because for her to log is also hard。 And Bob doesn't know little A because for him。

 to log is also hard。So there's no distinction yet between Alice and Bob。What is the distinction？

Picky。So the key。Will be G。 me the key will be G to the。B。How does Alice compute the ski。

 She computes it。 She takes the B she got from Bob， and she raises it to the A。Bob gets。

He got from Alice， and he raises this。这个B。Now， this is just G to the B， A。Which is， of course， GB。

And this。M G。My definition。So they agreed on looking key。那。😡，What about Alice， What about Eve。

Can you compute this？😮，So， EB C is free today。She seems treated to the be。What about G A B。

 This is the key。Can she infer from G to and G to the B G to A V。We also know that's our assumption。

 So basically， what they did。We suggested this protocol。 And is it secure， Let us hold it secure。

 Okay， so here's the assumption。It's called the decisional。Disy Heman。Also， M DDH。Assumption。

And there's something you said。That， for a given。G。Of prime order。And any。Generator G。

If I give you G to the A， I give you G to the B。And I give you G to the A times B。This is。

Singuishable from G to the A， G to the B and a G to the C for random C。 So in these things， A。

 B and C are all random。Thank you。Sorry， prime order queue， sorry。Now。

 this assumption basically says the scheme is secure。It's by definition。

 it says L C is G to A G to the B。 G to the B looks like a random element in。Cause he's random。

And shes a generator。So this key is a completely random group element。Okay。

 so so secure by assumption。Any questions。Okay， if you don't ask me， I'll ask you。 I have a good one。

Okay， well， here it is。Why prime order。Why， why may， why prim， where， where did that come from。

Why don't you say。For any G， take a generator and dissolve hold。对二。I you supposed issue。

If the a a chicken they like eight times these more likely than not to be even because somebody't even ordered group。

 then we might be able to make， for example。E should determine whether like knowledge。

 exactly precisely that So exactly what you said， you exactly right。 And in another words， yeah。

 you can make this assumption for an arbitrary group。 but it just gonna be false。 Okay。

 so the problem is， if G is not prime order。Then this assumption is false。 And why， let's look。

 for example， a Z P star。Why is this assumption false for Z P star， Z P star is not a prim group。

 Why is it false， because。This。It's a quadraro president namely it's an element of the form x squared for some x in Z P star。

 Okay， it's a square。s a square or b is a square or I mean， even if A is even or B is even。

Each one of them is even with purple off。So this is much more。Luckily。To be a square。

 they' not a square。With probably three quarters at the square。

This is a squared probability have because half elements are squared。Now， it's easy to check。

 Turn out if an element is a square not。So if， if it's a square， then if it， if it's a square。

 then if x is a square， then when you raise it to p-1 over 2， you'll get one。

Because it's something to the square that the two cancels。

 And then any element to the order of the group is one。And if it's not a square。

 it's not gonna be one。 So it's easy to check this。So the point is。

 this DTH assumption is true or okay， we don't know that it's true。

 but we know it's not going to be true if you have subgroups that you can test。

If you're in the subgroup or not。So we need to be very careful with subgroups。And prim groups。

 there is no subgroups， except for the identity。That's kind of de generaterate something。

So that's why we need a primmoal group。Okay， so before we take a break， let me just mention。

 I want to say one thing。 So this is the DDH assumption。There is a anyway was。

 There is another simple。A weaker or assumption。So first note。

 this assumption is much stronger than the discrete log assumption。If you can break discrete log。

 of course， you can break this because if you can break discrete log， you can find a， you can find B。

 and you can find a times B。 And you can see that this is not a times B。

So if you can break discrete log， definitely could break this。 So this is a stronger assumption。

There is another assumption that's in between。 It's called the computational diyament。Favi age。

And the computational dement says that given G to the A， G to the B。You没必。

You may be able to distinguish you to the AB from randomom。It should be hard。To compute youe to baby。

Okay， so you may be able to distinguish it。 Once you see it， you can see， okay， it's not random。

But still， it's hard to compute it。第二。😡，We are talking about computational distinguishedability with decision version。

Okay， wait， here we're talking about computational distinguishability。 Yes， yeah。

 here we're talking about here it says that anypoliticized adversary。

 if you give him this or you give him this， he can't tell the difference。 So if he tries to say one。

 if it's a DDH2po and 0， if it's random twoo， he'll fail。Okay， I'll say if he says one here。

 he says one here with the same program。Up to neable factors here， an adversary。His goal。

 we give him a much harder task。We don't give this in town， oh distinguished if it's random or not。

So even if he knows， let's say he's able to compute the last， I don't know， La over two bits。

But he can't compute the other underdo he fails。Okay。

 so you really need the sense if he gives them time or thing。And the CH assumption assumes it's hard。

So I just want to say， we believe that for ZP star。That C DH holds for for Z P star。

 So even if there are subgroups and so on， it should still be hard to compute this。

But it's easy to distinguish。But this is the assumption we need。For key agreement。By the way。

 under this assumption， the CH assumption。We still get something We get。 We still get that。

Doesn't know the Ke。So it's there nothing。 She doesn't know the key。

But she may have a lot of information about the key。Okay。

 the fact that she can't find the entire key， Maybe she knows all the bits except for the last。

 I don't know。 log squared lambda bits。She may have a lot of information， just not the entire thing。

So we can't like， just use it as is。For as a secret key。For encryption。

If you want to just use that as secret encryption， we really need the DDH assumption。Questions。

Should I interpret your silence as like， we don't understand what you're talking about。

 or we kind of get it。Get it， okay， great。 Let's take a couple minutes break。Okay， so okay。

 so we have a key agreement。 Now， next thing I want to do is I want to use this to get public key encryption。

And basically， we're almost there。 Okay， we， why are we almost there。

 Because we already agreed on a key that we can now use for encryption。

But we need to kind of massage this into kind of a public encryption scheme。

 So before I show how to do this， let me first define what a public encryption scheme is。Okay， so。

Thefin。A public key。Enccryption scheme。Con si this？啊，不。EPT algorithms。So three algorithms。

 we have Gen。We have encrypted， and we have decrypted。So Jen， oh， conceive three algorithm。 Okay。

 a public encryption scheme。For message space。M。Can depend on Lada consists of three algorithm， Gen。

Takes his input one to the lambda。Okay， so there's a PPT algorithm in the security parameter and outputs。

啊，Public key。I'm going to use your public key to encrypt messages to you。😡。

And the secret key which you're going to use to equirypt my messages。It has an encrypt algorithm。

That takes his input a public key。And the message M from the message space。And outputs。

You need the public key for encryption。 So you're sending my message。 Yeah。

 I'm sending you a message。 Yeah exactly。 So I don't know your secrets。 We never met。 You tell me。

 look， we never met。 I don't want to share a key with you。 This is my public key。

If you want to send messages to me and them using my public key。 So I'm sending you a message。 Okay。

 I'm sending you a message with your public key。And it outputs。Some cphert。

And then there's the crypt。That you use your secret key。To decrypt mytyphertex and。

Get back a message。And。Okay， and。It satisfies the standard completeness guarantee。

Which said that for any message， for I guess， for any Lambda。And any message。In the message space。

The probability。Over a pair of keys， public key and secret key。From Jen。

And over the randomness of the encryption。 So over randomness。Usually we donnoted by this。Overall。

 the random coins。The probability that you try to decrypt。Using secret king。

A message that was sent to you。Using your public key。

The probabilityity that you'll succeed in decrypting。Is one。This is called perfect completeness。Okay。

 so mainly works。 If I encrypt a message to you honestly and you decrypt， you'll get my message back。

Okay， and this sometimes we can relax this to one9。 It's negligable， but often we get one。

 we just say one。Okay， that's completeness。How about security？So security。So let me tell you first。

 there's the notion of what's called semantic security introduced here by Shaffi Silvio Golddessar Mialli。

 So semantic security。It's a very simple definition。 It's not as strong as we can get。

 but it's almost what we want。Semantic security says that。Two messages So for any， yeah， lambda。

And any two messages， M0 and M1 in Lada in M Lada。So free security parameter。

 choose whatever two messages in the message space you want。

And now the semantic security says that if I give you an encryption。so。

If I give an encryption of M0 or encryption of M1。You can distinguish between the two。O， so。Okay。

 maybe let me write it maybe better。So for any adversary。For any poly size adversary。

There is this a negligible function。Such that。For every lambda。For every and 0。

And M one in the message space。The pro mobility。That a。

Given a public key because he knows the public key。

So this is an aary that doesn't have the secretQel key。

He's trying to decode messages that are not for him。 He sees your public key。And he sees。

Now you're given a message。M B， either M 0 or M1。 So we'll choose a random B。

And we choose public key secret key。And his goal is to guessby。He wants。

 he gets an encryption vitamin 0 number1。 He wants to know which one it is。

And he guesses with probability， well， Hafi can always guess。At most half plus negligible。

That's romanticmantic security。Okay， is this let's see if you are we happy with this definition。

I mean， if you remember in the when we talked about symmetricque encryption。

 we said it was much more complicated。 We said， okay， we have an aary。

He's given oracle access to the encryption。 he can ask。 He can ask back and forth， back and forth。

 And then he gets a choose。 And why is this so simple。Exactly， why am I not giving you， you right。

 exactlyact， So why， why is it okay here， It seems like a very weak。 It's like a one time。Like。

 why am I not giving you oracle access to the encryptpion algorithm？呀。Thiss public piece so that。

Exactly， you don't need to。Okay， so he can compute。I in computer and encryption。

A effort for to encrypt， you can find encrypt any message you wants。

So the only reason why this definition is slightly weaker than CP security。

 I'm not talking about CCA when he gets decryption oracle。

 because this is really like decryption oracle he doesn't have any he can't decrypt。 But CP security。

 So remember， CPA security in the symmetric setting。 we get the averary。

Oracle access to the to the encryption oracle。 here， we don't need to。

So the only difference between this definition in CPA security is that in CPA security。

The two messages。Can basically depend on the public key。So， the only。The one way to。

 if you want CPA security， the only way that like you want to enhance it is so for CPA security。

You wna allow。So you w to allow like M 0 and M1 to be adversarly chosen。Given the public。Okay。

 so basically to get CPA security， you want to say。That for any adversary， A。

 we give him the public key。Then he chooses M0 and M1。Based on the public key。And now。

 after he chooses this， now he gets。The Cyt。An encryption of either M0 or M 1。

 And cannot tell the difference。可ですけ。The encryption has to be probabilistic， exactly。

Encryption scheme is a probabilistic encryption。 Otherwise， it's completely not secure。 Thank you。

Encryption is always probabilistic。 one reason that you should kind of notice why encryption has to be probabilistic is。

 you know， suppose I want to encrypt you a yes， no question answer。Now， I encrypt to you。 Yes。

 Now the grocery says。 oh， maybe he knows that in the morning。 I'm very positive。 and I say yes。

You know， then he says， oh， yes。 Yeah。 Now I know this is yes。 Now。

 every time I send this encryption to yes， he knows it's an encryption of yes。

So it's very important always when you encrypt， it has to be probaistic。Okay。

 questions about this definition。 I'm not gonna talk about CCA， just CP for now。We're good。 Okay。

 so in the notes， I defined the CP more formally。 I' want doing the work It's a bit。

 I feel like as we go along in class， I'm gonna wave my hands a little more because I feel like by now。

 you know， you should kind of be more comfortable。 and it's good for you after class to try to do this formally on your own。

 And if you need assistance go go to the notes because it's there。😊，But， you know， in the beginning。

 I was more rigorous to kind of teach you how to how these things should be done。 But by now。

 I get kind of。Lazy and bored。 But， but I do want to make sure you know how to do these on your own。

 So if there's any issues， just come and ask us。Okay， so this is the definition of。

 of secure encryption。Given them the key agreement。How do we get a secure encryption？

And I want to say， we're very， very close。就。Amazing that it took us so long。To realize this。

 this was done by Eli Gaman。Andll tell you when where's the El Gamal。Oh my god。 I don't give。Oh。

 I have it here。 Yeah，84。So only in 84。We。Kind of bit go man。

 notice how to convert this into encryption scheme。And here's the idea。Okay。

 so I'm going to construct the encryption scheme。 So Jen。Basically。

Send you the first message for our key agreement。Chris， I'm going to tell you look。

If you want to talk to me， we're going need to create a key because we never talked before。

 This is my first message of the key agreement。So。This is how it works。 So we agreed already。

 let's say that we have a group G and a generator G that we agreed upon。Okay， they don't need to be。

 There're nothing secret about it。 Okay， these are just parameters that are fixed。

 Everybody knows what they are。 This is a group of prime order， Jesus generator。

 And we soon D theH holes in this group。Now， what do I do， I choose。Or a sample。A random。X。

And QQ is daughter of the group。So between one and Q。And I let the public key。B G to the x。

And the secret key。Okay， so basically， this is kind of my first message to the kid agreement。Okay。

 this is what you see when you want encrypt messages to me。Now， how do you encrypt message to me。

 so you see my public key。Which is G to X。And you have a message。Let me think of the message for now。

 Let's say we include the group elements。Okay， later， we'll see how， like， if it's just like。

 let's say strings of length Lada， which is more kind of reasonable。

 But let's say now the messages we encode them as compound。So how do I encrypt the group element。

So here's what I'm going to do。 I know I what I do。 I tell you， okay。

 you gave me the first message of the key exchange。The second message of the key exchange。

So what I'm going to do。Give a sample and give to randomness。A sample， a random R。

And I'm going to output。鸡在哪儿？This is my。Second message of the key agreement。Now。

 our key that you and I know is going to be G to the X， the public key。 So this is public key。

Times R， I know R。Yeah， so what do I do again， I choose R。I give you the second message。

Of the key agreement， G to the R。I compute the secret key from the key agreement。

This is just publicly key to the R。And I use this to ask a message。One way to master the message。

 just multiply。If， if the message is a group element， I just multiply。Another way。

 So this is how in Gamal。Did it。 Another way you could do it。

 which is very similar is you can kind of。Since this is a random group element。

 you can take like several of the bits of it。 like I don't know the last lambda over 2 Bs and then just exor with the message and make the message like 0。

1 to the lambda over two or something。 the only， the only problem is like the like because it's。

 it's not all of two to the lambda。 It's like of Pi2 to the lambda over because it's it's the group is。

Q is none earlier or of the form 2 to the lambda， right， It's a prime number。So basically。

 you just need to do some。You know， padding and putting in the right place。 But basically。

 what we're doing here， we're taking the key and we're using M。

 Youre we're basically doing it a one time pad here。Okay， if this was random into the Lada。

 you can just do X with M and think of M as a， as any string of length， lambmbda。Or， or think of it。

 you know， multiplying the group is also like a one time parent。Okay。

 and then the decryption algorithm。Given secret key and the cipher tax。

So the ciphert is just kind of G to the R and G to the R X or X R。 It doesn't matter times M。

 What we do is the secret key is x。Right， so what we do， we take the first part of the cipher text。

 We raise it to X。To get the secret key。 So basically， when I dec。

 I get your message for the key agreement。I take my message for the key agreement， like I take my X。

I use them together to get G to the Rx。And then， I remove the mask。Okay。

 so if you denote this by CT1 and CT2。Then what I do， I take CT2。Which is this？And then I divide it。

 or I multiply it by G to by C1。To the negative x。So basically， G to that minus R X， and things can。

So really， next time we'll do the， we'll argue security and so on。

But what I want to point out it's like trivial。Because the key agreement consists of just simultaneous two message send doesn't matter the order。

 The key agreement。 Basically， you and I can send us messages the same。 There's no order。

 I send I choose a random A send G to， use choose a random B， use send G to the B。

 We can do it simultaneously。 doesn't matter。And we're Gr aky。 So now that is so simple。

 It's like my public key is going to be my first message to the key exchange。

Every time you encrypt a message to me， you choose a random。

Second message or your message to the key exchange。 that defines a key。

 And we use that key the one time。That's it。Now， we need to be a little careful because you can say。

 wait something is wrong because we're reusing the same。I'm reusing the same public key。

 I'm basically when I get the same public key。 I'm giving you my first message to the key exchange。

Now you can encrypt you， all of you encrypt messages to me。Every。You send me a random next。

A random kind of message from the key exchange。And the key， and we take care of it。

 that I'm always reusing my message。You're getting a new message， but I'm using my message。周。

Is it okay？To is it still like， do we get different keys because we're doing one time pad。

 So all these keys should look random。Now， if we did the key exchange completely from fresh， Yeah。

 we got random keys。But what if we re use the same first message， Do we get independent keys。

And the answer is， we do。 And， I mean。Computationally independent keys。 So namely。

 even if I reuse the first message。And you send me a random text message。 It defines the key。

 A random， another random text。 It define the key。 Another random next message。 It defines the key。

All these keys will random。Even if we use the same first message。

And that's where kind of the security comes from。 So we'll see why that holds an next sign。 Okay。

 so we'll do the security analysis。 But that's kind of the intuition。Okay。I have to catch a flight。

 Okay， we'll see you on， oh， theres no class on Monday。 I believe is there a holiday。 No， Yeah， okay。

 so I'll see you guys on Wednesday。😊。