# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p09 6.5620 Lecture on 9⧸29⧸2025 (Mon).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p9-

他是责任。我。向人升点。Okay。我这意思。一人在。Absolute， can you grace hear me。My work。回听。那个。看。O。这个这个。这个是。我我。啊，不知道。啊对思。看。

は。のち。よかいたmic。不。嗯。个去。因看能。你把这个规定。嗯嗯。会给你。In。이。一个案。O啊。Let's just get started first， Okay， so。

Hello everyone， as you can tell Yale's not here today， she's out this week。

So the lectures will be done by me atpartna， so I'll be doing today's lecture and then tomorrow is going to be part Wednesday is going to be a part of。

So today we're going to be covering Max and CCE security。

So if we remember from last time from last lecture。Things we covered were like the GDM construction。

 which is this like tree based construction for PRs from PRGs and then also like the definition of a Mac。

So the definition of a Mac， if we remember， is like we have a key space and a message space and with the keyspace and the message space。

 there's like a space of tags and the Mac is a function， which is one easy to compute。

 So given the key in the message I can compute a tag for it。

 And the second thing is this security notion that we call existential affordability against adapt chosen messages or E U ofMA security。

😊，So what is the like idea of this security notion。

 The idea is like we don't want the adversary to be able to produce any signatures or any like max on anything that it hasn't seen already on any new Mac。

 right？ So the security game will be as follows。 So we're going to sample a Mac key。

And then we allow the aversary to request tags or Mac on any message that I want to。

 any series of messages that I want to， and its goal at the end is to produce some M star and Calstar。

 which is like a message and signature pair or message in Mac with the property that the message should not be one of the messages that the aversary has seen before。

 and also the tag should be a valid tag。So in this case， we'll say that theversary wins。

So the security notion says that for all polysize adversaries。

 there is a negligible function mu such the probability that the adversary wins in this aim is negligible。

 and we might sometimes write as shorthand that probably that the adversary A when given Oracle axis to the Mac for a randomly sampled K cannot produce an M star and Tao star where the M star is this message。

 a message not in the query set set of messages is already que and valid tag along with this message。

O。So I think Yale this discussed this on Wednesday。

 but our tend construction for the Mac is like just a PRF right so today we're going to first prove that this Mac is this PR construction is indeed a Mac。

Before I get to that I guess some logistics as well。

 so the problem set was released last Friday it's due in a week and a half or so like the Friday after this Friday and if you have any questions you can let us know。

We also have a number theory review session today， so it's from three to five that's in for a building four。

 room 237。So that will also be recorded， I think so if you but if you want to go in person its。

Three to five。All right， so I guess like let's kind of see why the proof of why this instruction is indeed a map。

Our goal is to show that。Basically this we're going to use this like this definition over here。

 which is that so I'm going to fix。And adverary A， all these sides ofverary A。

 I want to consider the probability that a when given access to。The Mac oracle。Uses a message。

And signature。Such that the message is not in the query set。And。It produces a valid tag。

This is the probably I want to consider right okay。

 so if we expand out what the Mac is actually doing right it's basically just applying a PRf。

So this is equivalently， I guess like a PRF。Okay。And any messages that they queries？Okay。

 so I guess like does anybody have ideas for how we might show that this thing is secure？

what do we know about the PR？It's hard to confuse。 It's like invert， Hard to invert。 Okay。

 that's true。 I guess like， what is the security notion of the PR。You can't predict that。呃。

I think this can see something you kind of distinguish it from any random from a random function chosen random Yeah yeah so the PRF security notions is that if I pick a randomly uniform key and I don't give you the key I give the oracal axis to this PRF。

 it's indistinguishable from if I replace the PRF right with a random function。

So I'm going to use the security notion of the security property of the PRF and I argue that this probability is at most the probability that A when given access to a random function。

Produces a ball signature。So I guess this part is。Cl I don't want it to be the query set。

What would this， I guess like with this condition here， what would this be， I guess we want？

We want it to be the case that。When you query like the message and tag produced by theversary。

 if you query the random function on this message， you also get the tag that it says it should be。

I guess like why is this the case， April is not like immediately obvious because I guess this isn't immediately followed from the PR security。

 But if we look at this experiment that's going on。

 we can think about we can think about a bigger aversary， a larger adversary B。

 which kind of runs a first and it produces this M star and Tahow star and then it checks these two conditions using Oracle axis again to the Mac。

 right So it uses one more axis to the Oracle， and it can tell me like one or0 depending on whether or another adversary A has won the game right。

So if I translate that to over here， instead of calling with the map。

 I'll call all the random function。Okay， so this follows from the security of the PRF， I guess。

What is the probability here， this probability？2 little minus。Yeah， yeah。

 this is gonna be exactly like2 the minus lambda because if you didn't query this like this random function at this point。

 then we have no idea what ta star is， it could be anything right。

 so probability that a guesses To star correctlyrkley is exactly one over the size of the input of the output of this random function。

 which for us， I think we define to be 01 to the lambda。

 So this is going be equal to2 to the minus lambda plus。😊，Some negligical function。

And this is also negative。So that's a proof of the PR， the Mac construction， pretty simple， I guess。

 it's just the main step is just this one step moving from the PRF to the random function and keeping in mind that when we switch。

 the Mac here has to also switch to the random function。Any questions about this construction？Okay。

 so now we're gonna cover like an authentic edit encryption scheme。 So I guess like what is the， oh。

 actually， Mar of that。 So one thing about this map。

 right is that there's a fixed message length that we can attach tags to right So what if we wanted to map like longer messages than just the length of the message。

 right？ So I guess like。Let's say I want to map。He like M1 and M。

So I guess like one naive thing we could try to do is maybe we'll map the two。

Passages separately in the open Ca。Okay， so I guess does anyone see a potential problem with this？

唔过生 to。And what equals m2。M1 equals M2。 Okay， I guess in that situation。

Can you propose like like more details about like what are you thinking of like designing a tech against this scheme or something。

 I guess like what what's the issue of M1 equals them 2。Like I guess like Mark fun really。

 what can you do with the scheme？ you can calculate the mark of K M1。

 and then you can forge mark of M1 concateator with M1 by just concate concateating the。Bring。 Yeah。

 yeah。 I guess this is I think what you were trying to say something like this。 Okay， yeah。

 so I guess like even if I want to stick with just messages， like。

 let's say maybe my Mac only allows me to calculate like things of this fixed longer message。

 I can still definitely like， for example， Mac。😊，Like M2 and M1 right Or if I have the Mac of M1 M2 and M1 prime M2 prime。

 I can kind of mix and match， I can do M1 and M2 prime or M1 prime and M2 any combination that I want。

So this is a bit of a problem for this Mac security。

 And notice that this is like very distinct from the encryption schemes that we've seen so far。

 the CP security encrypt schemes where we assumed you could kind of just go bit by bit or you could encrypt it by bit。

 And there wasn't an issue with contaminatation， whereasas here with the Mac security。

 this is like a big issue， right I think so what could you do。

 I guess to mac a longer message So there are a couple different ways you could think about doing this。

 So one thing is to notice that our construction here of the Mac is a PR construction and uses this G PRF。

So if you want you to Mac a longer message， you could always make your tree like have one more level or more levels。

 right。 And then I can like arbitrarily long messages like extending my like the depth of my tree。

 right。 So that's one solution。 There's another solution that involves has functions which we're not gonna go into today but maybe at some feature lecture we'll go into this。

 So that's all I'll say that。Okay， so yes。The main focus of today is going to be on this concept of authenticated encryption。

Okay， so we've seen so far。Like the idea of encryption schemes right which is to kind of give privacy for your messages and then we've also seen Mac which kind of provide this notion of integrity or like verification right so what if we want both privacy and integrity we want I guess like we want to I guess authentic hate and also encrypt our messages right？

But I guess the issue is right now we have a Mac construction and we also have an encryption construction。

 how we put the two together to get us like an authenticated encryption scheme， right？So。哎，就可以在。亲爱的。

you。喺那个写。诶。听为。So here's one possible option。How we can。Ten。And I's authentic in encrypt scheme。

 So let's sample a message。key， sorry， in key space。

RightAnd we're going to basically just run like both encrypt and tiger message， right。

 So if I want to encrypt a message。I'm going to do is I'm going to。encryption。the message。

And I'm also going to produce math。So I guess like what's the potential issue with this construction？

This bank encryption scheme， my descriptionption scheme。She says。え？S。诶。

Could like the Mac leak leak information about M。 Yeah， yeah， precisely。

 So I guess like here our Mac。 What is the security of the map or the guarantee of the Mac。

 the Mac is giving us something of privacy guarantee you。

 right it says like even if I give you tags for messages， you can't like forwardge those messages。

 right， But it doesn't say anything about whether or not it gives you the message， right。

 So in particular， if I wanted to， I couldnt my Mac could just give you the message in the clear as well。

 along with like an original like a tag， right。😊，So this is still hard to forge because I guess the tag part is hard to forge。

 but now I've leaked with the message completely so my encryption scheme is kind of useless。

 Do you already know what the message is right？啊，And。

You could also think of even if I replace this so that I match the cybertex。

 the cybertex instead of a message and the clear， right， there's still some issues because。

These two security notions are a little bit weak in sense that they don't necessarily play with each other super well。

 So one can think of maybe an encryption scheme where like part of like the first half of the key is leaked by encryption。

 And then the second half of the key is leaked by the Mac or something right so on their own。

 maybe that's not enough for each of these schemes to be broken。 But if you put them together。

 you might just the whole key。Okay， so I guess like the point of this is to say we don't want to use。

The thinking片。For。In person and the Mac。So I guess let's try second teeth。This thing I'm gonna talk。

And。Mack。Look very soon。What I'm going to do instead is I'm going to sample。

Both a Mac key and an encrypt key。And if I'm wondering first。A message。I'm going to use both keys。

This is what I'll do first。I'll encrypt。Using therytic。And then I will produce a tag。这 is。あ再 second。

Okay， and then my final Cy text。I's gonna be。Inncryption along with the tag of the encryption。

And my descriptionion， I guess， will be fairly natural as well。I'm going check。That the map of。

My psychot。Is equal the tau， right？If not。After。Otherwise， I'm going to di。Okay。

 so we're understanding what the scheme is doing so far。 Basically， I taking your message。

 I'm gonna to encrypt the cybert。 And then I'm gonna add a tag on top of the cybertex。

So I guess like what kind of intuition like intuitively what is this scheme doing。

 this scheme is giving me an encryption scheme where like in order for you to basically like break the encryption scheme。

 right？What do you have to do like I guess like over there。

 maybe what happens is when you have the same key being used twice。

 like the encryptions of the Mac could be linking information about each other。 But here。

 I guess like the idea is like the Mac security will mean that like anytime I have a message here。

 I guess if I don't know what this C and ta will be beforehand this decryion scheme is not gonna give me anything。

 I'm always gonna get bought， I guess And so I know for sure that I guess this tag means that this cybertext this tag means that this cybertext is associated with like the person who has the Mac key so you're able to produce a Mac key on this cybertext and that means that I can kind of trust them when I decrypt the cybertext that I'm gonna get your message。

So。What kind of security notion are we going to define for these encryption schemes。

 so these authenticated encryption schemes， as we're going to call them。

 we're going to define a security notion called CCA security。

Which is kind of the like gold standard that we have for。Inncryption schemes and C security。

 So what does it say。So we have an incursion scheme， andion scheme。We say that this is CCA secure。

结续方好。So for all polys adversaries。There exists in negible function view。さし that。

In the following game， the I guess adversary A will not win with more than。So let me define the game。

 So here we have an averary and a challenger。 So the adversary。

 So I guess like challenger will sample key for the encryption scheme。

 and then the aversary will ask。The challengellr for different messages。I know get back encryptions。

Message。And this can go on forth like you can ask as many encryption or access as you want。

 but we're also going to provide an additional power to the adversary。

 which is that we're also given access to a decryption article。

 which means that here in any cipher textex。The calendar will also tell。

Diveverary with the decption of that cybert。And then at some point。

 the aversary will give some M M0 star and M1 star。And the challenger will pick a random B。

And send back。And these sorry， the encryption of M star。After this。

 the adversary still ought to make as many encryption and decryption queries as it wants。

 but the end goal is more to output some like guess B prime for what the B pitch chosen was right and the adversary wins。

It be prime。So the security notion says that the probability that a wins。Should be a most。

And gets to pick N01 so A here gets to pick anything at wants for the beginning parts to encryption and di。

And then it's allowed to make M0 star and M1 star here。

 Like you can pick whatever messages they want It could be the same message。

 It could be some arbitrary fixed message。 And then what the challenger is going to do is gonna like pick one of these two at random。

 send you an encryption after this you're allowed still allowed to make as many encryption and encryption queries as you want to accept obviously we don't want the adversary to be allowed to decrypt this cyberex because our goal is for it to guess we wanted to guess what B is So if we allowed it encrypt this M star encryption。

 then that would make the game kind of pointless right So we allow every other thing except that So all the except this star you encrypt more after that as well。

 Yeah， you can you can have， I guess theyre polynoly many encryption and encryption queries allowed before the message message are chosen the test messages are chosen afterwards。

 again， polynoly many encryption encryption challenges。

 Yeah if thepheric ask you like as the challenge like encryptions of beforehand and then choose the same and this is just immediately solve it。

えち？Yeah， so I guess like， yeah。 So， of course， it's like a potential worry to think about。

 So what happens in a sends n0 star M1 star beforehand。 And then it gets encryptions。 And later。

 it sends n 0 star M1 star is the test。 So I agree that for some schemes， this will break our scheme。

 right， So， for example， even our original like， if you think about like the original。😊。

The one time tab situation even there， like the scheme will be broken， right。

 I guess like what's the， what's the problem with that scheme， I guess。

The schemes not randomized Yeah so the if the scheme is deterministic。

 then the security notion will definitely fail because I can tell you。

 I can if I see the encryption of this message， I know that every encryption in this message will look the same but the key difference here is that our schemes don't have to be deterministic。

 they couldt be randomized in which case this M0 star and M1 star even if you've seen encryptions of them before it's I it should be the case that the encryptions that you get back are going to be different encryptions than。

I think if it's deterministic， even CP security doesn't。 Yeah， yeah， even CP security will not hold。

 So I guess like， if you think about it， the CC CCA security definitely implies CPA security， right。

 because in CP security， I'm only allowing you to get access to encryption oracle。

 And here I allow both access to encryption and encryption。 So this is definitely least as powerful。

How important is it to emphasize that the emphasis can keep making queries after proposing M0 and M1 star we don't emphasize that in CP。

 I that important Okay， so actually in CP security， you can allow this as well。 So in CP security。

 you're also allowed to make encryptions after then M0 start and1 star if you want to So it won't actually affect the security notion in this case。

 like if you allow encryptions afterwards it's still secure Like all the like it has usually the CP security thing we define is with encryptions allowed after as well。

 And the schemes that we've shown so far that security are still secure even after like you allow queries like after。

So the only thing A is not allowed to do after Mz or M。I to request the decryption。Yeah， yeah。

 it's not allowed to request the specific decption of this server deck。

 but can but it can do anything at wants the other amount。 It could， for example。

 modify one bit of this encryptption and then password。So if this is a very powerful notion。

 I guess you might ask like maybe it seems like too much， right， I guess？

Maybe it makes sense to allow you to do the encryption function because maybe you know how encryption works。

 but I guess like the decryption function， like I guess why would we ever allow you to get arbitrary access like decrypt arbitrary messages right or arbitrary cybertex So this I guess there's two kind of answers you can think about like one is that like the CC security definition is stronger than the CC securities that we can get it anyway as well。

 but also there are even like real world attacks， I guess where we have something which is not quite an arbitrary decryption oracle。

 but still some encryptption oracles So there is this class of attacks called like pa oracle text where I guess like for RSA a lot of these like exchange protocols that are used the exchange protocols that are used or like internet for the internet like Sl they use like RSA based schemes and there's kind of an attack that happens where what happens is like if you send a cybertex。

 the like server will kind of like look to see。😊，The cyberbertex that you've given is like the cart formatting and if it has the wrong formatting。

 it will kind of like return an error and so you don't necessarily get a full decryption oracle because you get like a partial decryption oracle you can see if you're like a given cybertext is like a valid cybertex or not。

So that's like one motivation behind why we wanted to define CCA security and different motivation is that in fact。

 there are stronger notions where like maybe I want it to be the case that no matter how I put like if I compose my encrypt scheme with any other scheme and they're each secure I want their combination to be secure and this is a notion called like UC security so you can actually show we won't see in this flash。

 but you can show that if you want UC security you at least need CCA security。

There's kind of like a couple motivations behind why you might consider this notion Okay。

 so now that I guess like we've covered what the security notion is。

 are there any more questions before we the goal will be to show that this encrypt the max scheme is CCA secure？

So have any questions。So as it stands， that's not random， right， Like you presumably need to Okay。

 so I wrote， I guess I wrote here Baton Kit and。ncry and decpt sorry encrypt and then Mac here right so in general。

 I guess our Mac schemes， we're going think of them as deterministic because of our security definition it doesn't really matter。

 but here like the CP secure encryption， I guess in order for encrypt and decrypt to be secure in the first place like CP secure in the first place they have to be randomized。

😊，Right， so I guess like I didn't write it explicitly here。

 but you can kind of think of there being like some randomness inside。

 so this is like a randomized function it's going to pick some R and then do something with these two things。

And all output are as well， so you know， like you've been always reconstruct it。All right。So S。

 now we'll see why this scheme is CC。O。😊，So。0ero。If。And script。Yeah is。Yeah。唔系。嗯。You know may secure。

Then the encrypted Mac scheme that we just saw。Yes。Okay。Yes。

 what is the idea of the group going to be， So let's suppose for a second that our averary wasn't able to use like wasn't able to produce any any separatet。

For this encryption article。That were like I guess other than bought that like it can only。

 let's say like the adversary is weakened， so the only thing it's able to do is query the decryption oracle。

 but every time a queryries the descriptionryption oracle gets bought。In that case。

 then I would so I guess our scheme here， our decpt scheme here says that it's going to first check this Mac right and if the Mac is incorrect then it's going to just output bo。

And so the body is like a special symbol here that just says like。

This like this is an invalid cipher textex。 I'm gonna reject you basically。So make sense。

 so it's like a special symbol， it's not any message。

 it's just there to say like this is an invalid sacrifice。是I guess你ition噻。

If the adversary is not able to produce valid citext right。

 then the decryption work is going to be kind of useless for it right。

 anytime it puts in something into the decryption work it always just gets invalid citext like a message error message right and so it can't do anything with that。

And if you don't have the decryption oracle， then you basically just have encryption oracle right。

 and so now we just we can rely on the CPA security of the encryption scheme。

So I guess we're going to break this up into two cases。

 I guess like what happens or if the adversary is able to produce valid Cytex and what happens if it can't produce valid setex？

So I'm going to fix that poly size of three day。Okay， so let's consider。All the queries。Like M1。

Through ML thats。A。Where is the ch。I'm going to said that I'm going to consider an execution of A and I guess like we can assume that a is going to be deterministic once we fix the sampling of the keys。

 because if not we can always like pick the breast randomness。

 so we're going to consider the set of queries that a makes to the encryption oracle。

As well as the set of queries that it makes to the decryption oracle。

Okay so I guess like I'm going to assume that the number of queries is the same。

 doesn't really matter because if one is less than the other。

 I can always just make some dummy queries， right？So let's consider the event that the adversary is able to produce a ciphertex that like des vly。

 but isn't one of the encryptsions that I got from this inquiry。What's call this。I guess like。

We all Delta。Let's define for all lambda， let's define Delta of lambda to be the probability。

That there exists。In index。I and L such that the Mac。呃。Right。Al。嗯。

So I guess here I'm going to say that I'm assume all my cipherts are over the form like C comma tau。

So Cu CI prime taui prime is the like when happens when I parse CTI prime and C C and tau will be CI and Taui will be what happens when I parse like the result of CTI。

Okay， any questions so far。I'm sorry。 So these C， these C Ts are things that we give to the the challenger to give us the direction that。

 Yeah， okay， so there's the the one without the primes and the one with the prime。

 So without the primes， these are the ones where the adversary sends like queries。

 the encryption oracle。And it's going to get back the cybertex for these messages。

 so for each MI it's going to get a CTI without the product。

And then the CTI primes are the ones that the aary queries the dier phenomena on。ok。

So I guess like we're gonna consider this function delta。

 which is the probability that basically theversary is able to produce a new valid Cytext。

 right Why this case I guess like if theversary is able to produce C crime and taui prime。

 then whereas C crime， this Mac is going to get this Mac condition is going to hold。

 then intuitively， that means that like whenever it produces C crime and Taui crime。

 this thing can be fed into the decryption oral and it'll actually give you a decryption of C prime right So instead of saying thought it'll give you a decryption。

😊，And the second condition is basically saying like， okay， well。

 if you gave a CI prime that was one of the cybertex you've already seen before。

 then it's kind of pointless for you because you already know what that cybertex is an encryption of。

 right， So like if you ask the decion oracle for an encryption of a decryption of the thing you've already seen like you already know what the message underneath。

 It's like there's no use， you don't learn anything， right。O。So that'。

So write this into two cases based on whether or not this probability that theversary is able to make a new valid cybertex。

 whether or not' that's non negligible or negligible。

The assumptions sorry the assumptions that this tau I time is like a balance secretary。Yeah。

 so the assumption is that the adversary is able to produce， yeah。

 like a new Cytext and also a valid tag associated with this。

RightThis is like the underlying encryption like like ak without the prime right and then this is gonna be like the tag that you check on top of the encryption right if you look over there。

 is theinsky Yeah， we don't care about the message that get to this C prime。

 we just care that there is some like01 Lambda link01 to the lambda link like Lambda length C prime that when you map it。

 you actually just get this top。Yeah， yeah。 I guess like intuitively。

 why do we not care about what the messages are underneath。

 I guess like what is our my goal is like to show that this thing will rely on like I want to argue that this probability is negligible。

 right And the way I'm gonna argue thats negligible is I'm gonna to try to reduce this to the security of the Mac itself。

 And if you remember what the Mac security was。 it says that for any like thing that you're macing on right you can't produce a new Mac like a valid tag along with a message or in this case are Cs that like the tag is a valid like Mac for that C right So here I care about what I'm actually Macing。

 which is the Cs of ends。😊，哎。Okay， so I guess the first case。Its one。Is it Delta。It is not negative。

Okay， I guess here in this case， then I'm going to argue that if Delta is non negligible。

 then I broke in the security of the Mexican。I guess does anyone have any ideas for how I might actually run。

 I guess I'm going to have to run a reduction here right from the scheme to the max scheme。

 so how might I do that？Yeah， I mean like you just run it and then you get some C prime tower， prime。

Yeah， yeah。 So the idea is like， okay， if you tell me this probably is non negligible。

 That means that the adversary is producing like new Mac on things that I hasn't seen before。

 And so I'm gonna use the output of the adversary。 And that's gonna be what I like say is the new Mac。

 right？ So， of course， there's one little thing， which is that we don't know which index the adversary produces a valid like new Mac for。

 right， So it's not too hard to deal with because what we'll do is we're gonna guess which index it succeeds on in particular。

 we're gonna guess the first index that it succeeds on。😊，So。Rection？い。Aniversary B。

And we're on as follows， so I mean， I guess。上 I。Or maybe I'll call this J。S some jam lambda。哦。

And I'm going to simulate the encryption or。And。So how am I going to do that。

 So there's already some like max scheme going on， right So the Mac team already sampled its own Mac key。

So what I'm going to do is I'm going to sample the encryption key。H。And so when I get a query for。

And。What I'm going to do is I'm going to query M。 I'm I'm going。

 I guess like encrypt M with my encryption key。 And then I'm going to query the Mac oracle on that Cypher textex。

 So I'm going to compute。See， which is。The encryption。M， and then， then a query。拿好。あ内？Right。

 and then I'll， I'll put。I cyberber text and my tech。

So clearly like I can simulate the behavior of encryption prime if we look at what's going on here。

 right， I sampled the encryption key uniformly randomly and so did the Mac Oracle。

And then when you ask for encryption of M， I basically did exactly what of prime would do in normal。

Great。So if you were never sure you have no idea whether or not you're dealing with this or the regular input。

 Yeah， sorry， can we go back to this Delta for a second think。嗯啊。What is CI crime？what is the okay。

 so I guess let me see if I can move。That's。Is this cycle tax？For some am I。Yeah。

 so I guess so I have some adversary and some challenger。Better color， Okay， so。

Anytime I send like an MI message MI that I want to import。呃， let's say。It says， please inch。

Am I what aversary is going to do what challenger is going to do is it's going to send me C。

CI pali and what is the C， the Cs encryption？A I。And how I is in。Does that make sense。

 and then if I say I want to instead。Some cipher text。P the I prime， which。

As the form CI prime and challenge。Aversary is is gonna do exactly that。

 So it's gonna to give me a descriptionion of。The two keys。Okay。你看。So when I say C prime。

 I'm referring to。The first component of whatever the aversary queries or the Gi Oracle and C without the prime is like first part of the response from the calendar。

 All right， great， Thank you。Okay。Okay， so I guess like what is yeah。

 so Delta is like it' probability that you're able to produce a new tag for this a tag for a new cybertext that you haven't seen before。

So we're going to try to， I guess， yeah， so we're reducing this as the security of the Mac。

 and we're going to do this by simulating the encryption oracle in the decryption oracle。

So if we just saw， we can simulate encryption ourselves given only access to the Mac article。

So now the question is， how do we simulate the。你 ideas。How do I simulate the description article？

So the burary asks， can you please？啊。To my separate text。お Iけど。

So I guess like what does the decryption prime usually do？

Check if the CT TI prime is valid by checking it's attack using the Mac and then the crypency。Yeah。

 yeah。 So I can do the descriptionion myself。 but if I want to check that this cow I prime is a valid Y prime。

 right， there's like a slight bit of an issue， right， which is that。Well。

 I don't so I don't know yet whether not the C prime Tai prime is valid right but if I give it to the Mac Oracle then I can't use that anymore as my new tag right in the game you have to produce a Ti prime for a CI prime that you've never queed the Mac Oracle on so if I ask the Mac Oracle then Ive kind of like lost my advantage So I don't want to  query the Mac Oracle。

 but of course， then you're saying like， okay， if I don't do that how I know that this is valid math。

So I guess as we said earlier， what we're new is we're going to guess which one you've seen before and so what's going to happen is if I is less than J。

I'm just gonna output that。And if I is equal to J。Then I'm going to output。

I'm going to take your word and I'm going to output C prime Ta I prime。As my Mac。

So this is like kind of what my reduction is doing here。So why does this make sense。

 I guess like so if you manage a guess J correctly right。

 then what happens is any time like before J when the I guess the adversary makes makes a decryption query。

 it's gonna not produce something valid by assumption because we it hasn't reached the first time that produce a valid cybert score And so it's correct for me to output bots。

 right， I don't even have to query the macroarchle。On the other hand。

 if like you are at the first time that you should have produced a valid back。

 then Ill just like I will take you out your word， and then I will output your cybertex and tag。

 right， Okay， so there's one tiny thing here， which is to say， like， of course。

 the if the adversary like decpts or asset decryption oracle for something that is already seen before。

 then I need a deal with that， right， So this on yet I。一。I crime I crime。you。

Some CITI or something that I'm even have MI。Okay， now I guess I purposely simulated the view of theversary with respect to the decption oracle。

If it makes like at， if it tries to decry a set has already seen before。

 then I know what the value is of the message because you gave me MI before。

 so I'll return to you what MI is and otherwise I'm going to guess that you didn't do correctly up until some index where I guess you did do it correctly。

Okay， so I guess it's hard to show that this。A不所B。Winds with。Probably at least delta over to to。

Alright， Delta over L。Because if it guesses the index correctly。

 then produce it will win with whatever probably the adverary wins。Okay。

 so this is a contradiction of Dltas。Which is a contradiction。

 if Delta is non negligible because we're assuming L here is polynomial。

 that's because the adversary can only make polynomial many queries。So that's。

 I guess the proof for the， the first part piece1。 and the second case will be when Delta is negligible。

 Yeah， I， I guess I'll take your question。 and I guess maybe we'll take a five minute break and then all over you。

Yeah， I wanted to ask like， is there any problem if。

Let's say we choose to stop after the correct point。Because， like。

The simulation of a depends on everything that it has seen so far。

 So it would tell them like but for something that does happen output could Yeah， yeah， yeah。

 So yeah， your question is like what happens if I is like bigger than today or something Yeah for later queries。

 Okay， so I guess the point here is that。if we look at the condition of what the adversary is able to do it's saying it's gonna give me like a CI crime in Tai crime that works with this probability and so if I look at whatever happens afterwards。

 it doesn't really matter what a C's because like after all I guess like I already got what CTI prime was I already got this pair that is supposed to be valid And so like even if I feed you some random analysis afterwards。

 I'm ignoring what you're doing anyways so it doesn't really matter what happens after J as long as I got the first time you did it correctly。

 then I'll be good。That makes sense。Okay， yeah， let's take a five minute break。

 and then we'll move on to the second case where Delta is negligent。不知道。对。应天是。Yes， okay。

 So I wrote this in the not。 It's not okay。 It's not entirely here。

 I'm not saying that this is what the decpt prime will actually do。

 I'm saying this is how B will simulate decption prime so far。

 I guess like before it's making its guess， It's gonna simulate dec prime honestly。

 And then once it reaches thing， it's just gonna say， I don't care like A， like thank you very much。

 I'm just gonna like， I'm gonna use your output for my own like my own reduction。

 I don't care what you afterward Does that make sense。 Like I'm no longer。

 like after I get to I equals J， I don't care what the prime or hold is anymore。

 Like I don't have to simulate what dec prime does for like things afterwards。 that makes sense。

Or like， in this theater。Here。Up until like the date query。

 I'm going to like actually simulate these things honestly。

 right so I'm going to think of there's some like Mac challenger here。

And like when you make the encryption queries， I'm going to send you the ciphertex and then you're going to give me tags。

Proect right and then like when you give me a decryption query。

 what I'm going to do is I'm going to run the thing out there for up until J， right。I was神水。

But then if equal equals J， instead of actually giving you like returning you to cr  query。

 what I'm just going to do is I'm going to take this。😊，I'm going forward it over。

 And I'll just tell the Mac。Challenger， is my， this is my Mac like my tag with my separate。

And then to this A， when I can do whatever， I could just out my argument。价。Does that make sense。

 Like I don't like the， I guess like A is this theme technically only makes sense and you like keep going all the way until that's that。

 But that's okay。 I'll just like put like random things up。

 So I guess like there's no guarantee on the behavior of a afterwards。 But I don't need that。

 I only need what it does like up until the9 like decption query。 That makes sense。😊，你十咪咁啊我。你Okay。

あ嗯好才。I guess like the adverary has no way in predict like predicting in advance what like what's going to happen later in the game right So if I simulate the game like honestly up until the J the Grin query。

 like it'll act exactly like a real game。And that's all I need。

 I needed to ask like like it should act up until the period and after the date3。

 I don't care how like I can do whatever I want， and then A will also do whatever it wants later but kind。

I guess， is it like a lowance extractor because you're like， okay， I want to。😊，The Mac security。

 which is， yeah。So what does the me says， the Mexico says like if you give me VI and I give you tax for them。

 you can't produce a CI prime and Ti Prime that aren't one of the things you've seen already and is also valid right？

So this reduction， like I want to think of like， what is happening is like the anniversary。

 the big averary B is like imagining A and C in its head。So it's going to like pretend to be this C。

 which is like a CCA security challenger， but singularly it's going to just like run A on this and then like forward it over to。

This like Mac calendar。So if you think about it in that sense， I guess like this is my big adversary。

Then it's like fine if I just like abort this game early right because this game is like not actually real。

 it's like what I'm imagining in my head。四系系先系。为什么。Confusing the definition啊。

And so what is the win for Yeah， so for bank security saying you get to make as many tourries as you want for different cybertex or different like things here。

 which I'm gonna call Cytex here。 And then you like the challenger gives you tax for them。

 And you win if you can produce a new cybertex。 Like it's one that isn one of the ones you ask for and a towel that's still valid for this。

And as long as you're able to produce a new like message tag pair， then you win again game。

周会的 anniversaryary years。It challenger。咩。第个。诶一个月。Yeah。

 I keep repeating this at some point I'm going to give you both the cybertex ans that I have。😊，Yeah。

 and you win if this one isn't when you've seen so so I don't actually leave this game to go on。

 when I'm playing dentist。こです？这现该怎应该是。就是怎样的PC。い気持ち。谁。打ちな。

If its last question when there's actually some CM map being run。

What are the specific things that we're going to send to C。

 it's only the things that A requests of normal C that are the normal CIs yeah。

A makes cute like okay in the I guess like B is my real adversary right for the Mac game and B is gonna imagine A in its head and it's also going simulate like the CCA challenger and the tag So anytime A asks for some encryption which are the ones without the primes then B is gonna forward those it's gonna do creates the B is gonna create the B is going to create the C from themic and then it's gonna ask for tag for that C and that's and then it's gonna give back both the C and the tie I back to the back to A And then whenever you make like a decryption oracle then you're gonna this is what you're gonna do yourself。

😊，I'm gonna like， if it's less， I'm gonna just say bot。 So I never ask the Mac anything。

 the Mac calendar or anything。 And then otherwise， I get what should be a good cybertex and tag pair that's new。

 And then I just send that along the Mac I have this question way earlier。

 Why can we actually assume that we get bot every time that we't fine， if we get bo okay。

 so I haven't explain that yet。 It's just like intuitively it's going on you understand。 Okay。

 so that's actually gonna be the second case。 So this first case was what happens if you can produce new text But new cybertex and tags with good probability。

 And we are we just argue that's not possible。 then the second case will be what if you can't。😊，哎。

说的说了。Allright。ok。Con starteded。 Okay， so in the second case。

What we have is if when Delta is negligible and so the interpretation is that the adversary can never produce a cybertext along with a new cybertext and a tag that hasn't been something it's already seen encryption on and intuitively the idea is going to be like okay。

😊，If you already saw the encryption， right， if I already sent you M and then I got back to the C andT a town。

 and that's what I'm asking you to decrypt， then you don't learn anything from getting back M right you already asked for it。

 And if you if you gave me something else that isn't something you you queed encryption or go on if you're not able to produce like with probability like a valid C andT。

 then I'm gonna always just give you bo right So you also won't learn anything。

So let's make that formal。 So I guess like now I'm going to produce a B that breaks the CPA security of the encryption scheme。

 So again， this B is going to imagine like a in its head。Okay， and there's going to be some CCA。

Challenger， and it's actually interacting with like the CPA challenger of encryptency。😊。

I guess like maybe I'll hold this。your English。Okay。

 so the challenge the encryption challenger is going to sample its encryption key。

What B is going to do instead it when it plays the CCA Char， potentially CC Chaenr。

 is it's going to sample its own Mac。Right， okay， so what happens when the adversary？

A says encrypt MI I for me。What should the adversary do。

 what should be do when A says please encrypt MII for me？

We send it off to bank to get the key and then give it to that guy to get the tax。Yeah。

 so when A asks for MIs encryption， what B is going to do is it's going to ask the encryption oracle。

 give me MI's encryption。Then encryption article will say， here we go。 Here's the encryption of。Am I。

And then B is going to add its own Mac， right， So it's going to Mac。

Sa protection text that I got that gives it。Tal I and then it's going to return。CIM卡。Okay。

 so that's how it simulates encryption oracles， queries， how does it simulate decryption oracle？晒一晒。

Here。Let's say I say decrypt。C机来。Yeah， just stop。Yeah， so it's gonna， I guess like。

But as before you have to be a little bit careful， we have to check that it obviously if A asks for a decption of something's already seen。

 then it always knew， so I'm going to check。I guess， check。If。C I prime。呃。Is in。The list of C。

 it seems。然。This is the C1clL that it got right if it's in this list。And。就。I is equal to。怎么么。はい。Then。

I'm gonna give you。My呃。Whatever they。Or something， let's say like this is equal to CJ for some J。

 right So if this is true， I'm and I verify your tag correctly。

 then I'm going give you back the message。 So this， I already know what the message is， right。

 because this is one of the ones I sent it from Oral to otherwise。

If you give me a new CI Prime that's not here， right， not in the C1 through C。

 what I'm going to do is I'm going to always just come with bots， Okay， so otherwise。啊不。

In other words， I'm going to send。In this case， I'm going to send thoughts over it。Adversary。Okay。

 so I guess why is this okay， why is it okay for the effort like B to send bots back to A in these cases？

LikeBecause of the adversar only has， like only has like the rice use and tangible probability。Yeah。

 yeah， because as we're in the case where this delta， this event happens with negligible par。

 that means that whenever a sends you this like CTI crime， right。

 if it isn't something it's already seen before， then when I say but。

 like I only with negligible probably will be wrong。

the actual encryptryption should have set bo anyway。

So you cannot tell the difference between if I give you bo versus the actual encryption with more than negligent。

 otherwise， that the only way you could tell is if you actually gave me like rad cyberts that were new。

 right？😡，Yeah， so make sense。Okay， so then finally。

 I guess what is going to happen is like a is going to give you like M0。

 M1 or whatever So let's see if I can create it here。啊。Okay， so A will give you M0 star。

Andm one star。You will forward that along to the encryption scheme。And0 scar。我事。

You'll get an encryption。MB star and then。Same thing here。 you'll afford that along with the Mac。首先。

は？然而。And then I'm going to simulate the encryption oracs and decryption oracalles as before so everything I do simulate before and everything I do to simulate after is going to be exactly the same and I just forward along the encryptions and then when you give me a B prime like when A gives a B prime。

 B will also give the same B prime。Right here。Okay， so。I say， you can think about it。不白分。

I'm just going to say that the probably that B wins is going to be probability that A wins。Minus。

Delta。我 am的。Where this is wins in CCA game， and then this one's in the CPA。

So the reason why this follows is because as we argue before。

 the only way for a to hack differently than before is if it men should give you a valid cybertext and tag along with it。

 and we just argue that only happens with negligible probability is probably Dlta So whenever deelta doesn't occur。

 the event doesn't occur， then this game A should succeed and B will also succeed。Dore any questions？

Okay， so I guess like at high level， what happened was we kind of CCA secure scheme And we wanted to ensure that this scheme was CCA secure。

 This encryption Mac， and we broke it up into two cases， right。

 Either thever is able to use the decryption oracle， like meaningfully， in which case。

 we're gonna say actually that will break the security of the Mac， right otherwise。

 it can't really produce like new cybert and tags。 And that's basically the only time that decption oracle is useful for you。

 if you don't， if you can't do that， then you always get like invalid errors whatever。

 And then you basically can ignore。😊，Whatever descriptions you get。I need to queries you get。

 I can just ignore it， and then I can break the CPA security of this。So I guess like， that's like。

 yeah， that's the CC security of this scheme。 So you might wonder， I guess， like。

 why did we do encryption and then Mac， right？ That's not necessarily the only way you could do it。

 You could think of like other schemes where we first Mac and then we encrypt or maybe we encrypt with one key in the Mac with a different key and put them together or something So I guess the reason why。

 as we might see on the third problem set is that actually encryption then encrypt the Mac is necessary if you want to have CCA security So the other two schemes will not be CCA secure。

😊，And yeah， we'll we might see that he sense why that's the case。 But they are a text。

 I guess like similar to what I was saying before with these like kind of like cutting oracle text。

 right if you in general， if you put if you put encryption on top of the Mac。

 what happens is you may be able to like the adverary might be able to test to see which things like it might be able to like change the cybertex that ask the encryption oracle on and figure out like something learn something about the key And the reason why it doesn't help here is because anytime you try to like modify the cybertex you kind of have to you're either changing the tag or you're changing like the encryption part And when I change like if I change the tag。

 it's gonna be incorrect。 I change the cyber textext。

 I'm have to come up with a new tag to work whereas on other hand， like if I change my encryption。

 like like if my encryption is on the outside， you're just gonna give like the plain text behind it。

 then like you're not really doing any validation here。Any sense。

 Like it might be the case that maybe like my encryption scheme。

 like I can modify the front part of it or something。

 and only the front part of it has to do with the message and not the tag or something like there's there's some subtlety there where like yeah。

 so we have to be really careful about which things， which order we do operations in。

 So I guess like in general， the safest thing to do is encrypted Mac。Okay。

 are there any questions about？Okay， so I think that's all we have for today on Wednesday。

 we're going to move on to a different unit， So we're going to start covering like public key photographyography。

 which is， I guess， like very different from what we've seen before。 There are a lot of new notions。

To cover， and I think we're going to start with signatures， right， Don and say yeah。Right。Yeah。

 reminder that there is a review session at three in building tour。

The room is also on the website for spect one。这个。はし。不对。Yeah也没食可。Yeah。

 so the simulation error is like Delta， and then the verse3 A， whatever succeeds with sumex。😊。

Which is like。So Delta we indicate two is negative over rate and the epsilon or the probably that A V c。

 it supposed be noneneglig of white。😊，是我。そ对。好好。それで。am。咁你会诶 c b。你。十先熟。itOkay yeah。

 so Delta the two cases are both assuming that the original K here succeeds in the CCA game with Mag。

So there isn't an A that succeed with downlink。Yes like I guess this case where deelta is never occurs。

 the matter case might occur， but you were going to need an angel。😊，we。他这他们他都是在那个。Yeah， yeah， okay。

 so。What is happening with DNA？So B is simulating A right So theres some chance that B will simulate wrong and what's the probability that they simulates wrong。

 it's a probably that a manages to produce something like that shouldn't have boughtted when I shouldn't have a bo form and that happens with probably delta that's my simulation error。

 And then otherwise， if I simulate correctly， then this is just for A。

 this is just an execution of the CCA game and so it should succeed with some probably epsilon so if epsilon is non negligible and delta is then like probably that B wins in the CPA game is like。

The when like as long as it's not incorrect， it's beulating ill win as well whenever you。Great。

 so weve got non negligible， minus negligible， and then so the total success probably is also non negligible in the CPA game。

 which breaks the CPA security because that means that this primarily is negligible and so that means yeah then our team is also CCA secure。

So yeah if if they。Yeah， so maybe to be more like explicit。polyly size A and the non negligible。

Like Epsilon。Probably that a wind。At least that。Does that make sense then this this first case doesn't really matter。

 but in the second case will be have minus helps and then that's when you're going to break the piece group。

I are certainly the。Yeah， so the number in here session is at three。In building4。

 So I think the party will be there。这个呢就是口的。Yes， I think it will cover the handout and I guess if people have questions。

嗯Yeah。More and software。嗯。Yeah。