# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p06 6.5620 Lecture on 9⧸22⧸2025 (Mon).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p6-

Sorry， guys， for those who are watching the video。 Let need to send it on。 Okay， we just recap。

 So we we saw how to do how to construct a one way pseudo generator。

 assuming we have a one way permutation。 It's not how to do it from one way function。

 but we didn't cover that in class。 The proof is beautiful yet involved。

 So we we saw the one way permutation。😊，And what we're gonna to do today。Is we're going to go back。

To to the encryption scheme， to secure encryption scheme。And note that the security we got so far。

 I'm still not happy with it。 And the reason why I'm still not happy with it is because， yes。

 it allows us to encrypt。Message， longer messages。But basically， one message。 Okay， so we said， okay。

 we have a key。 We expand it to the length of the message we want。Using a PR G。

 and then we can encrypt that big message。 But let's say I encrypted that big message。

 And a day later， I won another message。I actually want to。

 I forgot there's one more thing I wanted to tell you。Now， I lost my key because I already used it。

 I expanded it and used it as a pad。 So I have nothing left。

So what we're going to talk about today is to define secure encryption that secure against many messages。

So say we share a key。 Then I go to a different country， and I want to send you one message。

 And next time， I may want to send you another one。 You may want to send me。

 We may want to talk for as long as we would like unbounded。

 I polynomly number of times because we're polynomly bounded humans， but。

Clearlyly unbounded polynomial number of times。Okay， so then what do we do。And。Here。

 what we're going to see is the correct notion we want is what's called a pseudo randomum function that's different from a pseudo randomum per from a pseudo randomum generator。

We're going to define this notion。We're going you show why we're going to show why this notion about pseudo randomum function or a PRF is very useful to construct our notion of many message secure encryption。

And then finally， maybe we'll start today。 Def we'll do it on Wednesday。

 We'll finish it by Wednesday。 is we're gonna show how we can construct this PRF。

 a pseudo randomum function from a PR G， from a pseudo randomum generator。😊，Yes。Great， okay， so I。

 I'll expand that in。 I'll explain now。 But any questions before I， I answer that question。

Which anyway I want to expand on。Okay， by the way。The Pet was due on Friday。

 I hope you all submitted it。 and if not， you asked for extension。

 and then you need to submit it kind of， I guess today。 So if there's any issues concerned。

 let us know。O， so now any， any other questions or。Okay， so let me， let me elaborate then on。

 on what we want。Okay， so here is my， the goal， what I want for my encryption scheme。

I'm gonna to be able。To share a key with you。Of thatzi lambda bit。

But then I want to be able to encrypt many messages。Let's say each message is even lambda bits。

 I don't care。 It doesn't matter because I'm I'm I'm thinking of like。

 I want to be able to encrypt many， many messages。 If I want a long one。

 just you can think of partitioning it into Lada bits each。It doesn't matter。 So let's say I wanna。

 I wantanna encryptqui many messages。How do I ensure？😮，That all my that， I do this securely。 Okay。

 in a safe way。 And one way。One can think。 So any， any ideas， by the way， How would you， yeah。

Exactly， so let me， or let me say it a little。Different than what you said。

 but it's kind of the same。Here's an idea。 What I'm going to do is I'm going to。

 when I'm going to send you M1， let's say message 1。I'm going to take my key。 I'm going。

I'm gonna expand it using a pseudo random generator。 This is。 This is a pseudo random generator。

So let's say this is in just， let's say for simplicity， it's land debate。Okay。

 and then expand this to2 lambda bits。 This is lambda， and this is lambda。

 Let me call this K 0 and K1。And then I'm going use K 0 to encrypt。

 So my ciphert is going be M1 X or the。K0。ft with。This looks random。

So I'm going to keep that as my key。Tomorrow， we want， you wantan to。

 I want to send you a message I too， or you w to send me a message I'm too， sure。大キ？

Apply a PR G to it。 You don't want to use it because then you'll， but this key looks random。

 So take key1， apply a PR G to it。Now， you have two parts。Two equal parts。Not very equal， but kind。

 Okay， use this part。X or this with M2 to get Cypherex 2。Send this。And now we have business。

We can just have a key key like we can do it for as long as we want。

I think this is what you were allud to alluding to。 It's a great suggestion。And it kind of works。

 too。 It's good。 You can prove security of this。 This is actually very similar to the way we proved security。

 Does this remind you of anything。it's really。Prove security from one bit expansion of a PRF to many good expansion。

If you remember， we said， okay， this would be just 1 bit， and then we'll use this to expand1 1 B。

 and then we'll use， this is 1 bit and we'll use this to expand 1 B。

 It's very similar to the construction。Of how we kind of got more and more and more bits out of our PR G。

 even though our PR G expanded by 1 B。Okay， so this really works。 This idea works。

 And you can do that。The only negative side about this idea is that this scheme is， in some sense。

 it's stateful。 You need to remember a It's not just like we agree on a key， and that's it。Now。

 we need to kind of remember， so。If you sent me a message， let's say。And I didn't receive it yet。

But I want to send you a message， too。 Were gonna。 So we need to stay in sync every time because our key changes。

We started with， this as our key。But then after I send you this message。

 I'm thinking this is my earchki。Now， if you didn't receive this message， you may。We。

 this requires some synchronization or some stateness。 We need to remember how many messages。

Did we send already， Because if we think， let's say all messages were sent。

Then are key changes from this， too。After one， it's this。 after two， it's this。 like。

 you need to apply the pair UK times。 And our key becomes kind of the case key。

So either you need to keep state of how message， how many messages were sent。

 or you kind of change the key。 something。 So you need to keep some stin beyond just the original key。

And that is not very desirable。 And the reason it's not very desirable。

 And one of the reasons is that sometimes， let's say I sent you a message and you didn't receive it。

Now， we're completely out of sync。 Now， we want to grab the key because if I send you a message。

 you never received it。 And now you want to send me a message。I'm thinking， oh。

 I'm going to try the decryptive Huiski。But you actually sent it with a originalokeki。走。

We really need to be in sync kind of how many， we need to always be in agreement and how many messages were sent so far。

 And as soon as something goes out of sync。 even， let's say you send me message United new messages at the same time。

So when you received it。It's after you think I received it， but I I received yours。

It can cause kind of a complete asynchronization between us， and we'll be completely confused。Okay。

So that's why we don't want to do that。 I mean， that's let me I'll propose a better way of doing。O。

So呃。Good， so before I actually， so let me， let me first start by actually defining what do we want by multi message encryption。

Okay， and then once I'll define it， you'll see that this notion， that this idea actually。

Doesn't work with a definition。The natural definition of， of security。So， let me first。

The find a straightforward， like。So I want a kind of multi message security definition。

The straightforward definition is the following。So the definition is very similar to what we saw with one message。

 Okay， so we say in encryption scheme。Which consists。 So encryption。And decryption。

With message space。And Cypher tax space。C。And key space。Copa。Is set to be secure is。

Many message secure。And let me just。Recall。C pie is kind of it's a different keyspace for every security parameter。

And also， this can be a different。For every and the cpher text is different。

 So it's like a different set for each security parameter。 Youll will have different sizes。

And this key， as we said， you can think of this as always being 0，1 to the。不要 key。The key space。

 Okay， so it's many time secure if。For every policy size adversary。

HeHe basically sees encryption of many messages。 Ponomialally message it， many messages。

Of type 1 or type 2。 And he should not be able to distinguish。 So for。

 for any polynomous has adversary and for any polynomial L。

Kind of the number of messages he gets to see。 He gets us like El of lambmbda。

 permanent the security parameter number of messages。There exists。He will succeed。In distinguishing。

 only with negable probability。 So this innegable mu。No， is it for。L messages for any， let's say。

 M1 up to M L in the message space。And for every。Let's say M1 prime up to M L。In the message space。

I want say that this adversary will distinguish between getting encryption of these messages。

And getting encryption of these messages。Next little problem to you。Okay， so the probability。At a。

In one case， he gets encryption of K and M1 up to。K and M， L。啊我拉 down。And。

He tries to guess if it's am or I crime。And he's going to have the same guess in both in both cases。

 So the proposed app， he outputs one here。Minus the probability。That a outputs one。When he's given。

And one friend。I'm al prime。Is basically the same。Smal or equal to me。This is。不F一。So。Oh， second。我朋友。

Almost right。 You can kind of see。 Okay， so good。 So again， what the does the definition say。

 Now we allow the adversary。To see encryptions of many messages， because I'm talking to you。

 we're talking to each other back and forth many， many， many times。How many times？

Some polynomial in the security parameter。 Let's call it L。Okay， so now we want to say the averary。

Hes us talking for any polynomial out。 He may see Lambda squared messages。

 He may see lambda of the 10th messages。 He may see lambmbda at the 100 messages。

 I don't care any polynomial。Okay， so for any polynomial L。He get to see us exchanging M1。

 M2 and so on with a sense equal key。Because we once and f agreed on a secret key。

We moved to different locations。 And now the messages is just we use the same secret。

 key to encrypt all these out messages。And now we want to make sure he doesn't learn anything about them。

What do I mean by， What do I mean by it doesn't learn anything。If I send M1 to M L。

Or I sent M1 prime of the M， L prime for M。Possible L messages。 Am I in any possible L messages。

 Am I prime。You can't tell which is which。So maybe his goal is when he sees M's to say0。

 who see M primes to say one。n even he knows what the ends and N primes are。Okay。

 so his goal is just to distinguish。A the messages are this set or this， knows？

He shouldn't be able to tell。At all， let should look the same time。那。This。

May seem like it's a strong definition in the sense for all messages。

 what he knows the messages like。Like， it's kind of for every messages。

 So even kind of adversly chosen messages。That， in some sense， we're fixed for every monoam。

 any M primes that diversity should not distinguish。Like， again。The philosophy that。

If there is one thing you should learn from this class is kind of never underestimate the adversary。

 Okay， and the adversary actually can have control。 And like when real schemes are attacked。

 this is kind of many times the way they're attacked。

The adversary can make me actually send a certain message to someone else by。

Being kind of very sneaky。 Okay， so like never underestimate its power。

 And you want to really consider adversaries that not doubt don't that don't follow kind of honest behavior type。

 Okay， they're going to try to inject and to cause us to behaves in ways that will help him learn and cheat。

 yeah。一次哪。M。Great question。I was good。 So what， what you're saying， you saying， wait。

 there's no way to achieve this definition。For example， let me just repeat your， your observation。

 You said there's no way you can achieve it。 For example， let's take even L equals 2。And suppose。

 M and M2 are equal。So here you're encrypting the same message twice。And here。

 you're not encrypting the same message once。So it seems like you'll distinguish。You'll see the same。

Cyphertex。In here， you'll see something different。And you're right。You can't achieve this definition。

 unless。呀。Exactly。Exactly。In order to achieve this definition。

 the encryption scheme will be a randomized encryption scheme。And that's why going back to this idea。

This idea didn't have any randomization in it。 It was fixed， but it was stateful。Good， good。Exactly。

So， let me define。So to achieve this definition， you need to allow randomized work gonna allow。

Encryption， which is randomized。And now you're asking， what is the breakfast property then。

And here's the Preness property。 The Corness property says。Message in the message space。

 So maybe for every lambmbda。And every message in the message space。And every randomness。

 let's say the randomness is just 01 to the lambda。 If you need more， you can always use a PR G。

 So we can just first a positive not， think of it as a lambda bits。😊，You want that you want that。

If you decrypt。Encryption。Sorry， and for every key。You want if you're trying to decrypt with a king。

An encryption。There was in。K M with randomness R。有该不干。Now。

 this another way that people often write it， you want the probability sometimes over R。

That this holds。Okay， this is equivalent。This is just equivalent。

But sometimes you want to allow mine is negligible。

Because negligible frost doesn't really have any impact。 So most of our encryption schemes。

 you just decrypt correctly with probability 1。 So you always decpt correctly。

But there are some schemes where theres the negligible probability of error and decryption。

And actually， we can， we may see some of that when we later on。When we go to public encryption。

 We won't see it in in， in this section of the class。呀。呀。Are you making two different choices？

Sayme it does。 Okay。 So it's， it's， it's a random key key， right， So one case， I choose a random key。

And I give you encryption of M1 and2 and to M L with with this key with the same key。InAnother case。

 I choose a random key。 and I give you M1 prime2 prime of time M L prime。Yeah， yeah。 yeah。

 each one of them I choosing a random key， and I'm giving it to you。It it don't。 It's like， yeah。

Great， great questions。Okay， so this is the notion of correct。

And now now note that the PRG construction that we had that every time we kind of save a little bit of the key and we use it to encrypt the next message and so on。

That's deterministic。And， and the reason it still kind of works is because you need to have state。

 So namely， if you encrypt M1。The first time， and you encrypt M1 the second time。

 they will look very different。 It's not going to be the same encryption because you encrypt it first。

 you used one part of the key。 when you encrypted it again。

Use the outdoor part of the key because your state changed。就。But。

 but if we want the state not to change， it's just an encryption of the same key that we agreed on。

 and the message， then we need some randomization。Okay， questions。

So let me add one more thing about the the definition。So we actually。

 this seems like a very strong definition。 The many message security。But actually。

 the typical definition that we're considering is even slightly stronger than this definition。

And it's slightly stronger， in the following sense。Here we said the M1 M2 up to M L for any。

 even mally chosen。Okay， you can't distinguish。But in the。

 in the kind of the commonly used definition， which is called CPA security for chosen Pla tax attack。

 I'll write it。 I'll write a minute。We allow。 We also consider adversly chosen M one of time L。

So we want for any M1 of 10 now。But we allow them even to be kind of adaptively chosen。

 And what I mean by adaptively chosen is the following。 The averary can can say， wait。

 I want to see an encryption of message M1。 here' is an encryption。 Cyphertex 1。 Cyphertex 1。

 interesting。 In that case， I want to see encryption of message empty to。

And then he got separate text too and said， I see。 So I got separate one separate text。

 too interesting。Given these two side， actually now I want to see message M3。And so on。 So the。

The choice of the messages。May depend on the ciphertex corresponding to the message。

 and I want to write this definition down because it's a definition that the common definition and also the way we write it is in a what we call game based definition。

 It' just the natural， the most， the easiest way to write it is in some form of a game that I'll show you。

And that kind of game based definition is a very common way to describe security of cryptographic schemes。

 We'll see that in the public setting， we'll see that when we talk about authentication。

 it will come again and again。 So I think this is a good place to introduce it。😊，So。

 let me erase this。呀。Yes， it has to be because， yeah。

 it has to be of length polynomial because we want our。 okay， that's a great question。

 The question is， is our， does R have to be polynomial。

 and we want the the encryption needs to be of run polynomial time。 Okay。

 The reason it's important that the encryption runs in polynomial in Lambda。 Why。Because。

The security holds only against poly time adversaries。

 only adversaries that run in time or size polyial lambnda。Now， we always want our adversaries。

To be at least as powerful as honestist parties， Otherwise， it's like very weakversaries。

So we want to say， okay， the honest parties is， they just compute encryption。

They compute Cyphertex into decrypt。They run in time， Pai Landa。 That's what we want。

 And then the adversary。We so maybe polyly Lada， I don't know。 Maybe it takes time Lambda squared。

 Lada to the third， whatever to run this encryption and encryption process。We want thatdversary。

We want to be secure against adversaries， the run in time。

Even longer to10 to any polynomial time adverary。Okay。

 and and so because we consider only polynomial size， adversaries。We need the encryption。

 the time to encrypt or the runtime of the honest parties that are sending encryption to be a most poly Lada。

 So we're thinking of Pa Lada as being kind of， if you're super poly that' feasible。

That's kind of how you should think of it。 So if the encryption is in to run， there's no point。究者を。

一方。Like the encryption。I。那个有那这。Eryption not have。Sometimes the decryption has access to K。

And the same question。Now， sometimes what we'll see today。

 our encryption actually outputs the randomness。 That's part of the Cyphertex。So it depends。

 I don't know。 I'm for me， what he gets access to is thecipher them。

The ciphertex may be of the form R and something。If that's， if R is part of this Cyphert。

 then he gets star。But I now I'm not， I'm considering arbitrary Cypherdex。 I have arbitrary schemes。

 but the scheme we'll see today， indeed， are is part of the output of the Cypherdex。Up there。

 do you get a different one？呀林定。Yeah， exactly。 So up there。 Yeah sorry。Now these are randomized。

 So what you will see here， this is going to be with R1。 This is going to be with R L。

 and the probability will be over K and all the R's。And similarly here， random R 1， random R L。

 and the cor is over K in all the R's。So for random key， a key chosen randomly in the key space。

 So let's say the key space is 01 to L to the lambda for simplicity。

That's how we should think of the this。 Usually we think of this as being the key space。

 So for a random key in 0，1 to the Lada and， So usually you can think of these all as being in 0。

1 to the Lambda。If you need lambda squared， just use a PR G。 So， yeah。Okay。Great。Great question。

 guys。 Any Any other questions。Okay， so now let me tell you the game based definition that allows。

sTo be adaptively chosen after seeing cybertext。So I first want you to know， it's not that easy。

To define the。This definition in the adaptive setting， because。how are you going to define it。

 You want to say for every adversary。He cant distinguish between what he gets M1。 He can choose。

He he chooses M1。 He C C1。 now he chooses M how。How do you write it， You know。

 it's not easy to write。Okay， so before I show you the game based definition。

 I want you to think for a second。How you would write this definition in a way where the message is chosen here for every message。

 It can depend， so。You choose a message。 in one。Then the random key is chosen。

 You see the aary see Cyphert 1， the encryption with the random key K and M1 and some randomness。

 So we easy C 1。Or is you prime， maybe。Now， it gets to choose。The next message， based on that。

It's a bit like not trivial to see how to write it down。Okay， so now。

After hopefully you think about and understand that it's not the easiest task in the world。

 Let me try to write it in a way that I think it's how， how it's defined。

 And maybe I'll appreciate the kind of， even though it seems cumbersome， it's actually simple。 Okay。

 so this is definition。It's called security against chosen Pla text attack。 so chosen。Plain text。

Attack or。We call it。Secur。Against。Chosen。Plain text。At。CPA。

And the reason it's called chosen Plax attack， because in this attack。

The adver is choosing the messages。That he wants you to kind of encrypt him。Okay。

 and each time when you give him a safer tax。Basically。

 you're leaking something about the key because it's。

 it's a function of the key in the message that he chose。So， you're getting in。

Some information about the key。And now he chooses the messages。You know， as he wishes。

To kind of learn as much as he can about the key and then kind of break security。

So this is also denoted in the literature by adaptive tools a message attack。Because he chooses the。

Or after chosen Pla tax attack。Because he chooses these messages or plain text adaptively。It's also。

 often people omit the adaptive。 Okay， and it's also denoted by in the CPA。

 That's another word for it。 There's many。晕。CPA。In for indistinguishability based CPA。

I'm just giving you several things。 They all mean the same。 Okay。

 I'm just giving you several kind of notation。 If you read and look at them。

 you'll see people use different notation。O。So what， how do you define it。

 It's a game based definition。 So the definition says the following。For every poly size adversary。

There exists ineligible。Snpped that。A winds。And I'll explain what wins mean in the following game。

With probability。Plus。没。Sorry， there this music back for every London。Adverary wins。

With for birthday at most half plus mu of Lada。 Now， what's the game and what， when does he win？

 So now heres the game。There's a challenger。So the way to think about this is there's a challenger and an adversary。

The challengellr chooses a key。😮，A random key。In the case space， everything a it is 01 to the la。Now。

 the aary can ask。Okay， encrypt message M1 for me。And he gets back Cyphertex 1。Which is encryption。

Ofp M1 with some randomness。Okay， so he also chooses randomness。嗯3子的。那。You can do it many times。

 He gets like， am I。And gets back C， I。Many， many times。Okay， every time C。Is encryption。FP。Message。

With randomness。Okay， so polynomly many times。I mean， the adverary runs in poly times。

 So we can do this only probably many times。 It's a poly size adversary。But， you know。

 he can ask for M1， get separatetex 1， then ask him to get separatepart2 and so on and so forth。

 When he's done with this。He chooses。And0 and M1 from the message space。This。

 these are all these are all from the mess。 Maybe I'll write a prime。

Not to be confused with the previous one。Okay， so we choose those two messages。And to。The challenger。

 okay， these are my challenge Cyphert。So after he saw those now it said， okay， I， I'm now gonna。

 I'm gonna show you that I broke your scheme。Because I'm going to distinguish between encryption0 prime and M1 prime。

Okay， that's kind of okay， now what happened， I'm just going continue here。 This is， again。

 my challenger in my adversary。The challenger chooses random bit B。And he's going to encrypt。And。

Prime B。 So he's going to choose a random one of them and encrypt them。

And that verseary should guess。Which one was encrypted and 0。Or M1 prime。And he wins。

If he guessed correctly。The prime is。Okay， so again。A scheme is secure， if。Adversary。对。

Cyphert for any message of his， of his choice。And you can choose this message。

 or also it's called plain text adaptively。And he does that as many times as he wants。Now he's done。

 Hes he said， okay， I learned what I wanted from your cybert。 Thank you very much。 I learned。😊。

A lot of information， a lot of information about the key。 now I'm happy。Now。

 I'm going to show you I can break the scheme how。Here are two messages。

 I'm going distinguish between。 if you encrypt this or encrypt this。And indeed。

 he's going to get an encryption to one of them， chosen it random。

 And he's going to tell you which one was encrypted to him。

And he's going to win if he guessed it correctly。Now， of course， anybody can only probability have。

 You can just guess the bit B with problem just randomly。So， that's。You know， you're still secure。

 if you guess it randomly。But you're gonna to be secure if you guessed it， not better than random。

Okay， so you can always get that random。But the best thing you can do is basically random。

 plus languageligible。Questions about the definition。呀。Also realistic to considering cases。

Adversary doesn't know。And you。Okay， so please help me。Give me the introduction of some。介绍一下。到。我可以做。

ある。被告。Good good。 Okay， so your question is， okay， what if the adversary doesn't know M0 prime and M1 prime somehow。

 Okay， so two things first。If we O。It seems like if he knows N0 prime and M1。

 if he gets to choose M0 prime and M1 prime， it just gives him more power。

 Like we're protecting ourselves against a stronger adversary。Un。Unless here are something。

 for example。That。This security doesn't cover。What is。The encryption here。一此。

It encrypted something that。Prove the adversary is nano， For example。

 what if you encrypt the secret key。One of the adversaries said。

 I want you to encrypt your secret key to each other。 You have a secret key， right， you guys talk。

 You have a secret key， Ennc the key。Now， that Ro doesn't know。 He can't know。So indeed。

 that's what we call circular security。If you encrypt your own key。Under the same key。

 if you do encryption of key of the message key。Maybe things break。O。

 if a scheme that's secure against such a tax is called circular secure encryption。Okay， and more。

 more generally， a scheme where the message can depend on the key in some case， In some sense。

 it doesn't be exactly the key。It's some kind of a related key security。 This doesn't cover。

But as long as the message doesn't depend on the key。Which is natural。 not like， why。

 why would I encrypt you something that has to with my secret key that like， I shouldn't do that。

Then you might as well， you're just giving thever more power by choosing it。O k。

And I'm going show you how to get this definition。 So why not。 And， And as I said， without it。

 it's like not clear what the right。 You can try and weaken the definition。

But then it's not really clear how to weaken it in a meaningful way。Because you can say， okay。

 maybe I get security under random messages， but we don't talk。 We don't extinct random message。

 So it's not clear how to define these。Security， it's a good actually exercise for you to think about。

Like。What's the right way to define if it's not adversarial。You know， yeah。

 you can define if the messages come from a distribution， but。

That doesn't really correspond to the way we talk to each other。

Our messages are not really from a distribution。So， so defining adversarial is like。Seems like。

 in some sense， the right thing to do。 not just not。

 not only because we think that there's adversary of talk。s just because that's。

There's we don't have another better way of modeling our messages to each other。Like arbitrary。快水的呀。

Exactly， this is strictly stronger than the top one。 and the great question， great question。

 And basically the difference， the only difference is that here kind of the messages can depend on previousview Seists where here they cannot。

But it's a good exercise， because syntactically， it's not really kind of a priori clear that this is stronger。

 but it really is stronger。 So any scheme that CPA took here。Is also secure and tough。

 but not vice versa。Great question。 Thank you。Any other questions。Okay。

 so how do we construct this thing， How do we construct the CP secure encrypture。No。

 let's take a couple like a23 minute break， and then we'll do the construction。

