# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p11 6.5620 Lecture on 10⧸6⧸2025 (Mon).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p11-

Hi， guys。诶。Okay， so hope you had a great time last week with her amazing Ts。

 But now you're stuck back with me， so。😊，So sorry， but this is what you have。 Okay， so let's see。

 where were we。So last week on Wednesday， a， oh， thank you。OkayLast week on Wednesday。

 we defined the notion of or last week whenever， we defined the notion of digital signature schemes and we constructed one time signature schemes that secure only one time secure。

 so let me quickly recall just the definition of a signature scheme so a signature scheme is associated with three algorithms。

 Jan signing there verifying and it is said to be existentially unforgeable against adaptive chosen message attacks。

 sorry I haven't seen my daughter in a while。😊，分。啊。EOkay。

 it's extension and forible against adaptive chosen message of tax。For any adversary。

 polys adversary， he succeeds in in the following task with only natural probability。

 So what's the task， He's given or collapse to the signing algorithm。 Okay。

 so a random secret key and verification care chosen。 These are over kind of。😊，Keepey peers。

Chsn by the key generation algorithm。 So a pair of verification secret key are chosen。

 according to the key generation algorithm。The adversary's goal is to forge a signature and some message。

 But he gets to see。Many signature， he gets to see signatures on any message of its choice。

 so he has this oracle to sign and he can ask sign messageger M1， sign message M2 and so on。

 and he gets signatures。And his goal is to sign a new message。Okay。

 so his goal is to come come up with a new message M star that was not queried。 Q。

 just denote the set of queries。Okay， so Q is the set of queries that a makes its oracle。

And his goal is to find to output a message N star that he did not query to the oracle along with a validated signature。

 So along with some sigma star that the verifier would accept。O， and it's secure if he cant do that。

 So even if he saw a noly many signatures for any message of his choice adaptively chosen， still。

 he cannot forge signature to any new message。 This is exactly like the Mac definition， yeah。

So this is the definition。And our goal is to construct this。 And what。

 what you saw last week is Laport's construction that is secure only for one time。 So in other words。

 if the adverary get to make us。Oracle query。 So this set of queries Q is of size 1。

If you gets to make a single Oracle query。Then he will fail to sign any new message。

 but it was only one time secure。Okay， and if you recall what it was， basically the keys。

 the secret key is like many pairs of secret keys。 The public key is one way function。

 apply to these secret key。 And to sign the message， you basically reveal the relevant pre images。

 depending on the bits of the messages。It doesn't matter if you don't remember what it is。

 But what one crucial thing about this about lamp port construction is the keys are long。 Actually。

 theyre longer than the。Then the length of the messages。 So if we want to sign the message。

That consists of n bits。The secret key consists of2 N。Kind of lambda bit strings。 And the pub。

 the verification key consists of 2 N kind of images under the one way function。

 So the keys are longer than the messages。Okay。The reason I'm kind of emphasizing that the keys are longer than the messages is because today in today's lecture。

 we're going show how to go from one time to many time or from one time security to the actual security。

Okay， so Laport gives you this security for Q equals 1。 I want the security Pri Q。Okay。

 and we're going to show actually how to use any one time。To make to get the many time definition。

However。In order to do that， as you'll see， we， we will need a one time secure scheme to have the property that the messages can be larger than the keys。

Okay， so， we， we're actually gonna， what we're gonna do to get this is we're gonna end up kind of signing a verification key。

😊，But， but then the ver， you sign a verification key。 So the， you， So this key that you sign。

 the keys that you need for the scheme you send need to be bigger than the verification。Basically。

 we'll need the property， as you'll see that the keys are shorter than the messages。

So how do we get that？ So the other thing you saw last time was what we call the hash and sign paradigm。

 Actually， it's a very useful paradigm。 It's used all the time in practice。

One of the reasons why it's， So is the Hahinstein paradigm， Basically， you， you。

 you can have a very long message。 You can be in encyclopedia。What you do， you first hash it。

Using a collision resistant hash function。And then you sign the hash。

 So instead of signing this entire document， you just sign a hash of the document。

And that kind of this paradigm is extremely useful in practice， because signing is expensive。

 So you don't want things to scale with the lot length of， of the document you want to sign。

 So what people do， they always hash the document， and they sign just the hash。😊，But for us。

 it's also very useful because it allows us to basically make the message space arbitraryarily large。

 so you can sign an arbitrary link message。 You just hash it down to something small。

 And then you sign that。😊，So that's kind of where we were last time。And today。

 I want to kind of focus on going from one time to many time security。But before I do that。

 are there any questions， Do you want me to repeat anything from last week。

Anything you wna go over again or questions you have or anything like that。

 I'm actually I'm going to use the previous things。 I think， basically。As a black box。 So you don't。

 if you don't remember what they are， it doesn't matter。 All you need to know is， you know。

 we'll just throw to go from one time to any time without actually needing to recall exactly how lampport works and exactly how the Hahian sign works。

But still， if any questions or any。对呀。So， I。A function needs to be like efficiently vehicle。

Like based on the security key is together。そあ。That might。In prevent size。Good， okay。

 so a great question。 So in the hash， in the hash and signed paradigm。😊。

Here in the Hashinstein paradigm， we take。Hash function。

WeSo there's this notion of a collision resistant hash function。

 which which we use and a collision resistant hash function。 it has there。

 it also has if like some gen algorithm， if you want。 and it output。 So there's like a gen。

For the collision resistant hash function。And it also takes a security parameter。

And it outputs a key， a hash key。And now we said， you're right。 We say that， okay。

 the hash function takes the hash key and any。 so it it goes from 0，1 star。To 0，1 to the lambda。

And now what you're saying is， well， how can it take any length。

 What if it takes something of length like exponential？So， you know。

 if you take something exponential， this hash one's in exponential time。And you're right， if you run。

H on an input of length。0 what like a string of length2 to the lambda。 Of course。

 it runs in time2 to the lambda。 That's no question。But the security says。

 so let's talk about the security。 So this is efficiently computable in terms of the info length。

So if it takes K bit of input， K can B to the Ram。It can be whatever。

It takes poly K times to compute。So it's polymial in the input link。Okay， but for security。

 and that's important。 What's the definition of security， security says。So collision resistance。

Which is kind of the security notion here， says that for any。Poly size。Adversary A。

 there exists a negligible function。New， such that。And this is important。The probability。

A is given the hash key。Such that。 sorry， such that for every lambmbda， for any security parameter。

 he's given a hash key。😊，Chosen。By the generation algorithm。

And now his goal is to output two pre images， let me call it x0 and x1。That are distinct， such that。

X 0 is different from x1， and H。Of x 0 is equal。To x1。Is are most negligible and。

What's important here？These have to be polynomial size because this guy here is polynomial。

 He runs it in polynomial time。And he's given something of po。

 So he runs in polymonal terminalmin in his input。 His input is of length， Po Lada。

 because it was generated by Gen with input 1 to the lambda。 And this is efficient。

 So this is poly Lada。 So this。😊，Adversary runs in time poorly Lada。 So he has to generate。

 So the collision resistance is really only， you know。Kin of。

It's only for x's that are of size Po Lada。 we don't specify， but it just kind of。

 it comes from this definition。 A is size Po Lada。 It can only output things at length。 Po Lada。

 And so in the security guarantee， kind of we only care about being kind of in01 Pol Lada。

But computing it， you can compute it anywhere。Good， answer your question。 Great， okay。Awesome。

 any other clarification， yeah。Oh， good。 Okay， great question。 So the question is。

 why do we need this generation algorithm， Why not just kind of， you know。

 in the symmetric key setting， for example， we just output a random key。 So， so， okay。

 so there why not， So there's two， let me partition your question to two two parts。 A。

 Why do you have a key。 Why not just have H。Like a fixed function。That's question number one。

 and another question， if we do have a key， why not random key。

 Why do we need to generate this key somehow。Okay， I don't know which one you meant。

 but I'll answer both。So first， why not？ Why do we need it all a key。 Let's not have a key。

 Let's just have one function。 Yeah， the issue is。The adversary has like come from the device。

 We just have the client advice。 exactlyly， exactly right。

 We consider poly size adversary that may have advice。 And then that advers can just if it's just 1。

 a。That we're looking hardwire or into its kind of you know， in circuit。

 an x0 and x1 that form a collision because collisions exist。It's just hard to find them。Good。

 so we need。Some kind of key。Now， you can ask， why not have it a random key。

 like we did in like symmetric encryption。 Why do we want this key to come from a Gen algorithm。Any。

 any yeah， I suppose you。And you can just bake the conversation into the hash function。 Okay， okay。

 so Elmo， okay， first of all， let me say a lot of our hash functions that we have The key is random。

 Okay， so there's a lot of construction where the key is random。But。

It's not without loss of generality because so let me， it's exactly what you're saying saying， wait。

 why not just make it random。And then if it's not random。

 like basically make the key to randomness of Gen， if you will。

 and then compute the H and compute the function。thingh is it may not be colla resistance because this adversary。

Gets the hashke。Maybe given the hash key， it's hard to find collisions。

 but given the randomness used to generate the hash key， it's easy to find collisions。

So the difference between symmetric， like cryptography and cr or Mac。 and here。

Is that the hashke is not secret。This hash key is given to the adversary。

In the symmetric cryptography setting， the。That we choose only。So might as well make it random。

But here， thever gets the hatch key because he needs to do the computer。

 The computing the hatch is something that like everybody need， like to verify。

 you need to be able to do it and so on。 So that's a public thing。And therefore。

 allowing it to be not random just gives this thing more power。Good， great， great questions， guys。

 really great questions。 Any other questions before we move on。😊，跟。Okay， so， and again， if think。

 any questions come up， just ask， I love questions。 And you have a great one。 So it's fun。😊，Okay。

 so now we're going to go from one time security to many time security。And let me tell you。

 today's lecture should give you a real digital。 this lecture。😊，I basically taught you。

This exact lecture in a different lecture with a different primitive。So I'm gonna start。

 and let's see when you guys will be like， wait， I've seen this before。Okay， but at some point。

 you'll kind of be like， wait， this sounds very familiar。

 And you'll really get kind of a deous at that point。 Let me know what what your thoughts are。Okay。

 so let's start。So， okay， so I have a signature scheme that secure only one time。

And I want to make it。 So I'm gonna start with high level ideas。

 And then we're gonna kind of write things formally。 But first， intuition。

So I have a signature scheme， let's say there's kind of a verification key。😊，But now， and I。

 let's say， I have a signature scheme。 So I give you my verification。 can I have a signature scheme。

 The problem is that as soon as I sign a message， I can't sign any more messages because it's only one time secure。

So， but I know I want to sign many messages。So what am I going to do。So， let me give you an idea。ok。

Let me den my verification key by。 So I'm going to generate verification key and the secret key。

 Let me denote them by 0， because they're going to。G。Okay。

 so now I have one verification camp I'm going to tell you guys， this is my verification camp。O。

 now I want to sign the message for you。But now I'm like， oh， damn。

 if I sign this message I can't use my， I kind of lose my ability to sign more and more。소 희 소리죠。

Instead of signing only my message。 So to submit。With secret key0 a message。

What I'm going to do is I'm first going to generate another pair。Of keys。

And then I'm going to assign。vererification Q。 let me call this M1。

 because that's the first message I want to shine you。What I'm going to do， I'm going to sign。

I called it I'm going to sign with my key。Both my message。😮，爱行。Another verification key。

And what I'm going to give you。I'm going to give you。Here's my message。Here。

 I have a everification key also， and this is a signature。不。What is the point， The point is。

 I'm telling you， okay， here's a signature for me。 But from now on。

 I can't choose my verification key， 0 anymore。 So not only I'm giving you a signature。

 I'm also updating my verification key。So I'm telling you now I'm not going to use V K0 anymore。

 I'm going to use V K1， and you should trust V K1 because I signed it。 It came for me。

And now I have another。 So this is the first time Now， I have another message when I want to sign。

 let's say， M2。So what I'm going to do， I'm going to have my V K1。Sorry， Se Q1。And M2。

I'm going to do exactly the same。 I'm gonna now I， I want to sign M to my my second message。

 But this time was verification key。Withification key1。Or with Se key1， but I'm going to run out。

So I do exactly the same。 I'm going to generate。Another。And I'm going to sign not only my message。M2。

 but also my verification key。And I send you my， here's my message。And I updated my verification key。

 and here's my signature。Okay， and so on。 that's the。That's what I'm going to do。呀。这是吧。Exactly， okay。

 what's the problem， so。The problem is I， okay， first， it's not stateless at all。

 So you and I need to remember， right， we need to remember that。 we updated， we updated。

 we updated and so on。 You're right，100%。Tonight's stateless。2。But let me。Actually， I can make。

The you， the verifier， I can make you stateless。 I'm not stateless。 I'm the prover or the sign。

 I'm not stateless。But I can make you guys stateless。 Or in other words。

 I'll tell you it's worse than， it's not stateless。 In some sense。

 I'm always talking to the same ver。 I always need to sign to you because if I now want to sign to you。

 I it's a mess up kind of， right， because you need the state。 I need to state。So let me first say。

 actually。Only the signer really needs a state。 And I'll explain why。

Because what I can do as a signer。Is the following？I start with kind of secret key 0。

 or I give you guys V K 0。And then when I want to assign to someone the first message I sign。

 I tell them basically， I moved to V K1。 Here is a kind of message1， and I signed both of them。

So maybe this I give to the first person， you don't need you the verifier don't need any state。

 You just got these three。 You're happy。Now I want to send a message to someone else。

I can't choose this one。 I used it already。And so what am I gonna do now， I'm going use V K1。

 But so let's say now I want to assign M2。I will use VK。啊 yeah， sorry， VK。So， I generate Vk2。

 so I want to sign M2。 I generate a new verification key。

 I sign all these with respect to secret key。 This is respect to secret key 0 with respect to secret key 1。

 I sign this。 But now when I want to give you M2。And the signature I need to give you。

 here's M2 and V K2 C sign。 But now you're like， wait， V K2 is now your your verification key。

You ever occasion key saying yeah， yeah， yeah， but don't worry， See Vk2。I signed it。I sorry， V。

 sorry， V K2 is signed with verification key。 Sorry， I signed all this with with secret key1。

 But you're like， wait。See verification key。 What is I verification key。

 This is your verification key。Then I thought， don't worry， I signed V K1， so it is mine。Look。

 how do I know you signed it。After this。I say， see， I signed V K1。 with a message。

 Forget about the message that wasn't for you。 But you see， I signed V K1。

So now you know who signed V K1 must be me。 So it's my key。 And here I signed V K。 So you're happy。

And now when I go to the next person， I want to sign M3。

 then I want to make sure I have a new verification key。And I sign this with secret key2。

To generate Sigma 3。 now I give you。 I give you， oh， here's verification key2。

 That's my ver that I authenticated verification key2。 Don't worry。

And I signed message 3 together with this。 Don't worry about this。 But see， I signed。

 So I sign also message 3。 And you're like， wait， verification key2， how I know that it's yours。

 So I'm like， oh， give is authentication。 And then I give you all this thing。 You know。

 I see C verification key2 was authenticate verification V1。

 and verification key1 was authenticated by verification key0。😊，So， you're happy。So basically。

 I can make all of this kind of。 you guys are stateless。But what's the problem， I made you stateless。

 but。After I sign like gazillion messages to all the world， not to you。

 what happens to the length of the signature。It grows。 It grows kind of linearly。 So basically。

 when I'm kind of， you know。When this line continues， continues。

The length of the signature continues。So now you're stateless， I'm stateful。You're stateless， but。

The length really grows。It grows linearly with the number of messages I sign。Yeah。

 can you fix that that used to make the binary tree approach similar to the PR S construction。Okay。

 that was fast。 exactly。 So， yeah， so。Was supposed to give you some dig because we did something very similar when we went from PR G to PRF。

So if you remember， we had when we had a PR G， a pseudo random generator。Like， it first。

 it generated 1 B。And then we said， okay， we want to generate many bits。 So we did this line， right。

 like， okay， we generate one more。 We generate more。 we generate one more。 And then say， okay。

 but what if we want to generate like a PR a sort random function。 Well。

 if we continue to generate one by one， it's gonna go too slow。😊，And then， we said。Let's have a tree。

It's exactly what we do here。 So this idea is nice， but we're not going to use it。

 which is why I didn't do it formally because it's too slow。 So here's。Idea， so the idea 2。

 So idea 1。Was just。I have a line。Of vererification keys， basically。

So General made many verification key and authenticate them in a line。An idea， too。Is。Use a tree。

So let me explain。 here is kind of one way we can do this。I have a one time secure scheme。

I have verification key 0。 That's why I give you。But I want to sign many messages。

So what I'm going to do， I'm going to generate。Let me call this em。 Okay。

 so the vacation key empty set。Now I'm going to generate verification key 0 and verification key1。

And I'm going to sign them。I'm going to sign。With。Kind of secret key。Empty with this secret key。

Now I can sign two messages。 I can sign one message with this and one message with this。And you know。

 when you ask me， wait， how know this is yours， I'll show you the signature。Good。But now you can say。

 okay， but that's only two messages。Your problem。I'll generate here V K 0，1， V K sorry 0，0， V K 0，1。

And I'll find these。So let me do know this by。This is gonna be， let me call it sigma 0。Sigma empty。

 sorry， Sigma empty is like the signature。With。Secret key， empty and two verification keys。 V K 0。

UK1。So I signed these two with this secret key， but that's only two， not enough。

 I want to sign many messages。 Sure， I'll generate these two。

 I'll sign them with kind of I call it sigma 0。 And that's gonna be with。Kind of secret key。0。

 and these two。And don' do the same here。I'll generate Vk 1，0， Vk 1，1。

 and I'll sign them with respect to secret key1。 and this will give me Sigma 1。

And now if I want So now I can sign four messages。And if I want to sign with this verification key。

 basically， I'm going to use the verification key。 And then I'll show you kind of an authentication path。

 I'm going to argue that this verification key is mine， even though all you know is this。😊。

And what I'm going to do， I'm going to tell you， look。

These are mine because I signed them in De with verification key。ハテ。And so， you know， this is mine。

But these I signed with this。 So these must be mine。And know， I can use any of of these。

Take this tree as deep as I want。So suppose I w to， for now for today。

 when I go to many times security。 So without loss of generality。My， I'm going construct。

Many time here， I'm going to construct a manytime security scheme with message space， let's say。0，1。

这别难的。Okay， this is without us a general because you can apply hashian sign anyway。 So。

 but let's do many times security with this message space。 Actually， I can do anything I want。

 It's just for concreteness。 I'm gonna think of， I'll do a many time secure scheme with message space。

 The messages of link Lambda。 let's say then。😊，I'm going to make。Basically， this tree。

Of depth lambda。So I'm going to construct this tree of that cyda。

And then when I want to sign a message of length Lada。

 I'm just going to go down the tree to basically。You know， eventually， Vk sub M where M。

The message I want to sign。 Yeah， so the first bit of M is 0 I go here。 Second bit is 1。 I go here。

 Third bit is 1。 I go here。And eventually， I had a verification key。

 and I sign with that verification key。That's ideaatory。Yeah。Okay， great， great。 Okay。 So far。

 I created this gigantic tree。 So now I'm not only like state， stateful。 I'm， I'm just。😊。

It's not even state fun Just really， really inefficient。 I just store this。

The signer stores this thing of length to the lambda， which is terrible。 But you guys。

 the verifiers are efficient， actually， Like the signature is not that big and it doesn't grow。

 I mean， it grows with lambda。 like grows with lambda。 But lambda is small。 So， you know。

 things here don't things here are fine。 each basically the scheme is when I want to assign M。

 I'm gonna assign verification piece of M。 And I'm gonna give you kind of the authentication path。

 That's basically the idea。And you're right， I'm really inefficient。Okay。

 but we'll fix that in a minute by basically what you proposed。But before I run there。

 I want to mention， just， I want to point out a couple things。 So，1st of all， I want to emphasize。

For this to work， just note that what we're going assign is with VK with my VK empty said my original VK。

 I assign two verification keys。So indeed， here， the message that I'm signing is really larger than the key。

I'm signing basically， two keys。So it was really important for us to kind of。You know。

 make use a one time signature scheme that supports messages that are twice the length of the key。

And just in Laport， it was the opposite。 The message。

 the the messages were smaller than the length of the key。 And therefore。

 like the haselan sign was really important for us to be able to， to do this。

 That's just one thing I want to point out。😊，And then the other thing I want to point out is that。

 yeah， I do have the downside of me the signer working really hard because I need to have this gigantic tree。

 which， as I said， I will fix it。But putting that problem aside were really good because I am really signing with only key。

 I'm really signing once because。With this。Secret key empty。 I'm only signing this message。

 I'm never gonna sign any other message。And with this key， I'm only signing this message， this pair。

 I'm never going to sign any other message。And only on the leaves。With any leave V， K sub M。

 I'm only gonna sign the message N。So I'm never going to use any key to sign more than one message。呀。

有30。第一。Okay， so let's think now that the messages， that my message space is this 01 to the lambda。

That's my message space。 If you want more than you will hash to0 to the Lada。

 But now I'm doing just many times a secure scheme for messages that are exactly length lambmbda。

I'm just assuming that's the case。The leaves， each leaf is kind of associated with a path， a left。

 right，0，1，0，1 that you took to get there。 And it's only this message Im， it's。

 I'm gonna use this to only sign this message， yeah。You're going to send me the sage of P01。

And then the sign。Good， yeah， exactly。Exactly， so if you， exactly。

 So if you want me to send you a signature of let's say the message，0，0，1。

Then I'm going first send you this key and the message and sign it with this key。

 But now I need to authenticate this key。 How do I authenticate this key。 I give you also this。

Perfectation key。 I signed them with this。Now I need to authenticate this。

 So I give you this verification key and I sign them with this。 Now I' just authenticate this。

 So I give you these two authenticated these two keys and I。😊，So this and I was authenticated。

 because this is mine。 You know that。Okay， I'll write everything formally， but I'm first kind of。

Gona kind of lead you to the construction slowly， like informally。 But then we'll write it formal。

Okay， so basically， the scheme now I designer am really inefficient because I need to store this entire gigantic tree。

But other than that， things are very good。 when you want me to or when I choose to sign a message。

 I always go to the leaf。Choose the verification key that correspond to this message。😊。

I use this verification key to sign the message， and then I just authenticate this verification key。

By just going kind of to the path， kind of path and going kind of giving the signatures along along the path。

呀。😡，What is it called？I don't have any name。Signature tree， I don't know。

 I there a name for this tree， you know。But it's not really a miraclele tree because it's not hash。

 Yeah， I don't know。呀。Are you scoringing all these things？嗯哼。Okay， good， good， good， right。

So far as I said， I'm st with my memory。 That's a， that's a bad idea。 Yeah。

 that's a big drawback for what I presented。 Now， I'm saying， let's say I store it。

That's a huge drawback。 But beyond that drawback， everything works。But， of course， I do。

 I can't store it。 I mean， I can't find time to the lamb that that's ridiculous。

 So I'm not going to store it。So what am I going to do。場。Thank you very much。Idea。3 under fly。

That's exactly right。It's exactly what I'm going to do。So， idea。3。We're going to generate。The tree。

On the fly。Okay， what do I mean？Or what do you mean， Let me， basically。

I'm going start with V K empty。That's my original verification key。 And now。

 suppose you come to me and you tell me I want to or I choose to sign a message M， which is。

 let's say，0，0，1，0。 Let me just do 0，0，1， because I won't have room。Now I know that I'm okay， so now。

I need this， which is V K 0。 But to authenticate it， I also need V K1。And then I need to go to V K 0。

0， because this is 0，0， but authenticated， I need V K  0，1。 And then I need。VK 0，0，1。

 which is my message， but to authenticate it， I also need VK 0，0，0。And now， so I generate these。

 Okay， so I generate basically， you know， all these verification keys together with their signatures。

 And now I'm going sign M。😊，Which is 0，0，1。 in this case So I'm， I'm gonna generate a sigma。

 I'm going sign this message with whiskey。And now， but you're saying， wait。

 how do I know this kid is yours。No problem。 I tell you， wealthy see， I'll give you this。

 too and I'll sign it with this like， okay， if I knew this was yours， I'd be convinced。

 how do I know this is yours。 No problem。 I'll give you this and I'll sign with this。

And then I'll give you also this。 These two align with this。 And this， you know is mine。

So now I I were， I was efficient。 Now， next time， supposeupp now I want to sign。M， which is 1，1，1。

 let's see。Now， O， V K1 I already。 So now here's the point。 I need to remember this。 I remember this。

 I have already V K1。Now I need V K 1，1。 So I'll generate these two， which is V K 1，0， V K 1，1。

 And then I need。You know， VK111， I'll generate with this。And I'll sign， right， basically。

 I'll sign the message 1，1，1。And now I do the same thing。So I do everything on the fly。 I'm。

 I'm always efficient， but the problem is。I became stateful。I'm a fresh。

 but I still need to store because。Suppose when I signed this， I generated these two， right。

 I generated part of the tree。 Now， suppose I didn't store them。I forgot about them。

Now I want to generate a signature for 111。So now， again， I need to choose verification keys。

But I can't。 I already signed this one。I can't sign with this verification kit anymore。

So I have to remember them。So my memory grows with a number of signatures that I signed。😊。

That also not that great。呀。被刚出是。They might say， oh， I don't。3。can't just give rid okay， so okay。

 good。 So let's say and the verifier and the assign。 You're the verifier， yeah。

You have to see this message。 I'm giving you this entire tree like the relevant。 Now， you keep this。

 You're like， she signed this。 She signed with this verification great。 I'm gonna keep this。

 I'm going keep。😊，I'm care about this。 I actually never cared about this。

 I'm just going to keep the signature for this respect to this。

Now you come to me the next day and you tell me， sign this。Now， I forgot that I signed this already。

 I didn't store this。So now I'm going to generate a new。Kind of new keys， unless I stored them。

going to sign in again。I I can sign it again if I knew， if I remember them。So the question is。

 why store this verification key or can I erase them。I'm sorry， here's why you can't do the race。O。

 let's not say I era them Good。 But tomorrow， I want to sign another message。Okay， so I'm doing mus。

 and I'm going to sign them with respect to this。But now I signed respect to this two different messages。

And now， you know， the secret key。 And now you'll sign on behalf of me。Great， great。No。

 I can't that you're changing the game。 So yeah， you're saying， okay。

 basically you'll make me one time。Cause now you think， okay， create a new verification key that I。

Okay， you should think about this follows。 C a new verification key is not a simple thing because I basically。

 it was。So let me， this is something we didn't talk about， but you can ask。

How do you know my verification key， How do you。rification key。You know， I can tell you。

 this is my verification key。And you can believe it。 But maybe， you know， maybe Andrew told you。

 this is Ya's verification key， but it's actually his verification key。And now he signs on my behalf。

 How do you know that it's mine。And the answer is the way it's done in practice is there's what's called a authentic certification authority。

 They certifiederify the keys， but， but it's a mess。It's not easy to change verification keys。Okay。

 so， so you really， genuine vacation key is not something you want to do。

 It's not something you do easily。Okay， so my goal is to continue from the outside world。

 I always use the in verification。 Okay， I don't change it。But I still want to be able to sign many。

 many messages。And I have to be faithful because I can't forget them and generate new ones because then I'll sign with this key。

This pair and the new pair。And then I'm out of business。 I'm out of luck。 You can。

 you can impersonate me。So， I'm stateful。呀。😡，Exactly， great。

 So I want to make this process of generating keys somehow deterministic。😊，But remember。

 exactly that's what I want to do。 But， you know， keys are， I can't。 I mean， they're not。

 You need to apply the key gen with some randomness。You can't just， what do you mean to。

 So you're right。 That's what I want to do。 And that that is what I'm gonna do。Yeah。

 can you use a PR for that， exactly。That's it。 So， idea 4。Use a PRF。 and then we're done。

Or basically do it deterministically， exactly like you guys sad。And the way you do the is via PR。

So idea four。啊啊。Choose。Basically， div verification keys。Or the key pairs。Using a PR。And basically。

 the way it's done， what I'm going do is when I want to choose。So I'm going choose a PRf key。

 So when I'm going to do it， I'm gonna have a key。 So I'm going sample。Some key for for the PRF。

And then when I want to generate any secret key。I'm going to call secret sorry， verification key X。

And secret key X， where X can be。In 0，1， smaller equal to Lada can be the top。

 It can be the second layer， Any pair of keys anywhere in the tree。 I'm gonna sample that。 I'm gonna。

 It will be by applying Gen。😊，With randomness， I'm going to call it our setbacks。

And A subex is just going to be the PRF。With key and x。So it's going to be the exact same。

 So the first， the first time I generally let at V K 0 and V K 1。I'm going to apply。

 I'm going to assume my PR。We're going to assume I have a PRf。That takes a key。Of length lambda。

And any input of length。Smal or equal to lambda。2。Let's say 0，1 to the lambda。

Suppose that Gen uses lambda bits of randomness。If you need to more apply PR G or something， yeah。し。

The X， if you get higher levels of the tree of that gives you。No， okay， so， okay， my， okay。

 so I'm assuming that my PRf。My peer， I'm assuming I have a PR F that takes keys of size lambda。

And any input of P 01 to the small or equal to。 So it takes this input any string。Of length 1，2。

3 up the Lada。Okay， that's why something you can ask。

 But what if I only have a PR that takes exact string of length Lambda， How can I like， you can ask。

 how do you construct a PR where with this weird message structure。I can answer that question。

 but suppose you have such a PRF。Now， as long as you have different aes。

 it will always give you a a random looking thing。And here， I always have a different x。Okay。

 now you can ask who I'm merely applying with different。

 You write that one x can be a sub string of the other x。 But these are two different inputs。

 and you'll get a completely random output。 That's what the PRF promises you。Okay， now you can ask。

 it's a weird input like a space because you think of the input space as being 01 to n。

 What is this 0，1 to the smaller equal。そうです。Exact， you can， you can just pad it to make it one big。

 Yeah， you can always add it like 1，0，0，0 at the end。 and now always assume it's at length。

I don' know Lada plus one or something。So there's a way to， to make it that。Okay。

 so I propose we take a couple minute break。And when we'll reconvene。

 we're gonna do everything we did， but now kind of formal。Okay。

 so we'll just go over it kind of formally。Okay， so， okay， so let's do our many time secure scheme。

 So what are our ingredients for our scheme。 So， first of all， we have， we said a PRF。

 It takes some key and 01 to the lambda。😊，It takes an input。

 which I think of the input as being in 0，1 to the any string of length at most Lada。Okay。

 so any can be shorter strings as well。 And again， you can always pad by adding one in zeros to just being like 0。

1 to the lambda plus1 or something。Okay， to 01 to the Lada。 That's my PRF。I assume I have such a PF。

 and I also assume I have a one time signature scheme a signature skin that is one time secure。Okay。

 and I assume that it works with long messages。 So it's for messages that are twice the verification killing。

At least okay， so I can do or like implement our approach。Okay。

 now I'm going to construct this scheme。 Okay， so we're going to construct。A new signature scheme。

Denoted by， let me doing by like Jen Star。四。Six star。And very star。Okay， so now let's start with。

 and I'm gonna describe algorithm of them。 So let's start with Jen。So what Gen does， well。

 it generates a key for the one time scheme。Okay， so。Sple。A key I'm going to call again empty set。

 secret key， empty set。From Jen。So this is only for one time。And I'm gonna sample a key for the PRF。

And again， you can think of this as you to the Lada。 I don't really care。And now and I'll let。

The verification key is just going to be verification keys empty。😊，Let me call this star。

 so we'll be clear that it's for the star and that secret key。Is going to be。The SQL key empty。

 but also the key for the PR。And I'm going to output。TheK star and thisK star。So， basically， the key。

For my signature scheme is going to be the just the key for the one time， but also oh。さ。Okay。

 also this is par。It's gonna to be part of the secret key， not the public。 Okay。

 just my my own secret key。Okay。诶。Okay， how do we sign。Okay， so now let's I want to sign。With V K。

 I'm gonna call just empty because that's what V K star is。 I want to sign a message， M。Okay。

 and let me think of as being M1。Up M lambda。Because in my signature scheme。

 the star signature scheme is going to be a signature scheme for messages of links Lada。Okay。

 that's a。Okay， so now how do I sign。Oh， sorry。Secret key。 sorry， sorry， sorry。

So we call secret Key star。So now what I， what I need to do。 Well， first。Let me pause， actually。

Secret key star is just。Secret key， empty and the key。

Now I want to generate what this signing algorithm will do。

 he will generate that only the part of the tree that's relevant。For this message。Okay。

 so here's how I'm going to generate。 So now I'm going to generate this basically。

 I'm going to generate all the verification keys that lead to a verification key sub n。So， for every。

あい？Iye is kind of the layer of the tree。I'm going to generate。I'm going to sample。And。VK。And。

1 up to M， I-10 with secret key。M1。M I minus-10。 that's for the one time scheme。

So I'm going to generate the verification key in secret key， for layer I。Oh， sorry， this is one。

Perification key M1 M minus11。And secret key M1 up to M minus-11。Oh， sorry。 I need to be careful。

With randomness。😮，F。K啊F。K of。M1， MI minus-10。And this is。With randomness。F。K， M1， M I-1。忘了。Okay。

 so basically what I do is I sample basically VK0， S K0， VK1， S K1。With F， K 0， F K 1。That's the top。

 Then I generate V K， M1，0， V K and M1，1。 So I kind of go M1 M2，0。 I kind of go down the path。

And each of these two， I then signed them。 So let me denote by。Sigma I。Will be。A signature。

Of these two keys with a key before。 So of with secret key。M1 up to M -1。And verification keys。

 which are V K。M1， M I-1，0 and V K M1， M I-1，1。And this needs to be also the little one second with what randomness。

With randomness。😮，FK。And。Sorry， one second。I think maybe I didn't write it in the notes。 Hol on。

 Let me just make sure I didn't make a mistake in the notes。Sorry。This is good。Oops， yeah。

 I forgot okay。You know what， Let me， let me say， suppose we have two PRFs。

 It's the same cause you this also needs to be。 Let me write this PR。 Let me deote it by G。

Of M1 up to M I -1。Okay， so this is another PF， yeah。Oh， good。

 That's why I didn't write it because our one time was not randomized， great。Sorry， okay， good， good。

 good。 Now， remember。 thank you。 Okay， in general， some signature scheme are randomized。O。

 our one time signature is now randomized， so we don't need randomness。

 So that's just equal kind of good。 Thank you。I think I even wrote a note about that。 I forgot。 Okay。

 great。 So this is justistic great。 So you write sigma I and now。😊，Let me。

 maybe I'll go to another board。 So'll keep these。诶。OrMaybe I'll write this up here。

 So what's the signature。So， output。So first I output verification key。M or sorry， Ill put M。

 the message， verification keyM。So eventually， Ill have opt to verification PM M。And。Sigma。

Eventually。Okay， sigma M， which is。Sign。Of secret key end of messaging。That's the first thing。And。

I need to output the authentication of verification Km。So here I just say。

 here's the message I want to sign。 This is my verification I can sign it with。

 and this is the signature。This you can verify。 But how do you know verification PM M is mine。

So I'm going to also output all of these。So this is also I output verification key。

 M1 up to M I-1 with 0 V， K， M1 up to M I-1 with1。😊，And sigma。Let's call I -1， because and sigma。

I minus-1。So， basically。This is a signature of this message with verification key。

 which is just M1 up to M minus1。So。For I in。那的。That's the output。Okay， this thing。

Is the authentication？Of。VKM。Okay， so basically， for any message M。

 I give you a completely new verification TV cam。And I sign them with a graification key。

And then I need to authenticate that verification key to convince you that that verification key came for me。

😊，And the way I authenticate it is I give you like VKM and VKM with the last flipping the bit。

 and I sign that with the VKM top with which VK M one of the M。

 like everything except for the last one。 And then I give you the basically。

 I give you the authenticated path。😊，That's the scheme。Ma maybe I'll write the verification part。

 if though it's so boring， but。Okay， maybe I'll just say， yeah。Yeah， yeah。 No。

 I'm outputing this triple and this list， because this triple。

You're convinced that Sigma is indeed a valid。 You can check that it's a valid signature respect to Bcam。

 but you don't know that Vcam is mine。So this authenticates VKM with respect to VKM， which is。My。

Yeah， so how do we verify this？So final， write it， even though。Pooring and。Okay。

 so how do you we want to verify this， I I， okay， so you give。You have a verification in key empty。

 Youre given M。And you output， okay， actually， you don't need output really M because M is like thats the signature of M。

you don't talk M as part of the signature， but the verification gets M and gets the signature。

 What is the signature， It's sigma， It's a V KM。Sigma M。And let me call it authentic。M。

That's the signature。And this is， this is， this is the authentication of event。This thing。Okay。

 so how do you verify this， What does ver do， First， it verifies that， first of all。

 that this signature is good。So it first checks。That the where， this is star。That bear。

With verification keyM， that the watertime key， with verification keyM。Would would accept it， man。

That's the first thing。This doesn't work and reject。And the second thing， it checks。

The authentication。And what do I mean to check the authentication， what it does？Is it checks。

That each sigma。Is a valid signature of respect to the kant top。So。For by authentic。

 I just mean that entire thing。 I don't want to write it again。

 But how the way you check it is you check for every eye。You check if there with verification key。

 M1 up to M-1。Acept。And， and message。M1 M-10。M1 M I-11。Accepts the signature， sigma。I -1。

If all these pass。Then， he accepts。Takey a note that when I is 0， sorry， when when I is one。

When I equals to1， that's an authentication respect to the original VK empty。That's the scheme。

Questions。O， so now we need to argue， why is it many times secure。Okay， so we。

 we argued it like informally。 But let me try to tell you how like the formal proof would work。

 Actually， it this is a complicated proof。 And the reason it's a complicated proof。

 because there's a lot of。There's a long way to go。 So basically， how do we prove security。

 We want to say if there's an adversary。That breaks the many times security。Of the signature。

 star signature。I can construct from him an adversary that breaks the one time signature。But。

Going from that adversary that breaks the many times of cure scheme。

To an aver as that breaks the one times a cure scheme， theres a lot of steps。Okay， it's intuitively。

 I think I， I mean， I try to argue intuitive why it's the case because I use every key one So it should be O。

But now I need to actually prove it。 I need to do some reduction。And this reduction is not trivial。

 So I wrote it。 It's written pretty elaborately in the notes。 But let me try to。

I don't want to do the entire thing just because it's it's。Really boring， I have to say。

 but I'm going to sketch it。And then if you want to look at the details， look at the lecture notes。

But here is the idea。So。So security。By the way， also， one thing ask， why is it correct。 Like。

 why is it indeed， Why do you verify if， you know， if you sign honestly。

 why does the verification accept， right， we have completeness to it to prove。That's really boring。

 So I'll skip that。 That's just immediate。 So let me go to security。Okay。

 so security is the following， So suppose。Oh， I just， okay， I suppose there exists。

 I just raised the definition here。 Suppose there exists a poly size。Adversary。And not negligible。

Non neligable， e。Such to that。For every lamb。And the probability。That a。to sign。Secret key， empty。啊。

Okay， secret key star， sorry。And Vk star。Output。N star and Sigma star。M star was not queried。

Ce the set of query oracle queries that it made， and。Theres time。Acepts。This signature。Suppose。

 this is greater。Then next。Okay， so suppose I have an adver that breaks with programming better than Epsil。

Now I want to use him to break it one time。And here are the steps。The first step。I want to say。

That a should also succeed with nonne probability。If， instead of using。So remember science star。😮。

The randomness he uses as a appearance。Suppose instead of using a PR use a truly random function。受。

Step  one is。Replace。Sciine star。喂。What I want to call sign double star。

Sciine double thought is really inefficient。O， instead of using a PRF。

 he uses a truly random function。So sine double star。Is uses？Random。R。Completely random function。

 instead。Of。Ps。Okay， so suppose I'm in kind of a game in my head where the adversary to instead of getting access to this。

Oracle， he gets an access to an inefficient Oracle， double star。And this every time this guy。

 does this instead of using F， it uses completely random function。Truly random， not P。Okay。

 this is kind of the double star。So double star doesn't need like with a double star。

 you don't need a key。You have， like， this random function。Okay， instead of key。

 you have like a computer。Like a truly random function。There。

One can argue that A still succeeds with non probability。Otherwise。You can break the PRf。Okay。

 then if now a6 is only with now one probability， you can use a to break the PR。Because basically。

 you'll choose the secret key， everything on your own。

 and you'll just kind of oracles the PRF or the or the truly random。 And based on how a behaves。

 you'll be able to guess。So that's one part of the proof。Okay。

 so now suppose now we're suppose we did this part。

 And you know that a still succeeds with probability Epson， even when talking with。

 with sine double star。Then what we do， the next step， is we say， we're going break。

Not really the one time security game， but another security game。That's a little similar。

But different。 So the next step we're gonna do is。Is。

Instead of breaking the real one time security game。Is we're going construct an adversary。

We're going to construct。Adversary B。That he breaks the one time security， but he's given many keys。

Okay， so B is given。Many verification keys。U the amount verification key then I'm going to give him is like Q。

 which is the number of oracle calls that a makes。 So A makes at most some。

 let me call Q number of oracle calls。But also times to lambda。 It doesn't matter。

 The point is I'm gonna construct anary B that it's given many keys to the one time scheme。

And what B does is he's going to break one of them。Okay， so what we can do construct B。

 given this oracle sense。At most。One oracle call。To each。Signing oracle？O。

 so he gets to generate one con to each of these one time to each of these scheme。

 This is a one time secure。And then in output。Some M in sigma。And we're going to say he wins。It's。

M is not in the query set。And there exists in I， such that。There。With verification， key eye。

M in sigma outputs 1。So he basically， he doesn't break the security of。

The one time scheme with one key。 But rather he gets polyly many keys and he's going to break one of them。

So he gets to ask one oracle call to each。 and most one oracle called to each。

 And he's going to still break one of them。 And we're going to contract it such that he wins with probability。

And he's going to win。With probability， epsilon。Like that guy。And now， so we need to construct it。

 But even if you construct them， you say。So what like that not the security game。

So now you need to show， okay， there is this an adversary B that wins in this security game。

There was grocery B that wins in the security game with a single verification key。And do that。 Okay。

 we're out of time， so。Either on Wednesday， I'll do。 I'll finish the proof with a recap， or I won't。

There's an advantage to finishing with a recap， because。You'll hear it once more。 But the hand。

 it's a bit boring。 I don't know。 Okay， how many want me to recap in next class and how， okay， recap。

Start public encryption with our recap。C man， you're like 50，50。What you know。You don't， okay again。

 You don't。 You guys don't get， okay， recap。1，2，3，4，5，6。 No recap。1，2，3，4，5。1，2，3，4，5。

 were you sorry， What's your name， You voted twice。 What did you vote for。Recap or no recap。No recap。

 No recap， guys， It was really even， though。OK啊。I， I'll， I'll。

 I'll poll again maybe in the beginning see whos here O。

