# 《密码学基础｜6.5620 6.875 18.425 (Fall 2025) Foundations of Cryptography》中英字幕 p19 6.5620 Lecture on 11⧸5⧸2025 (Wed).zh_en -BV1EsvhBgEyF_p19-

Good so far， we were focused on authenticity and secrecy when you want to communicate and the last two lecture。

 we focus on how you encrypt。😊，Messages in a way that will allow the。Receivever， the。

 the service that received your crypto computation to homomorphically do computation and this， sorry。

😊，The server will received your encrypted data to do computation on your encrypted data。

 that was fully homomorphic encryption that we talked about in the last two lectures。😊，Today。

 we're gonna shift a new module， which is about proof systems。 And basically， the question that。

You should think of is， you know， the reason why we went to FH or why FH is so powerful and so useful today。

😊，As we mentioned， is that， you know， there is a lot of data and often we can't hold on to this data。

 We need to outsource it to some service。 And we're worried about our secrecy。

 the secrecy of our data。 So we want to give it encrypted。

But then the service may offer us some benefits。 And so we may want to do some computations on our encrypted data。

 and so on and so forth。However， the question is the following。Okay。

 so let's say we give the server our encrypted data and he can do computations and encrypted data。

 How do we know。That the computations he did。Our did what he was supposed to do。Okay。

 maybe we gave him encrypted data， yeah， he has the functionality， the ability。

To do the computation we require or we ask for， but maybe he just chooses not to。You know。

 costs computation，I's back in consumer of zero。Without doing any computation。

So given that we are in a world where we cannot do all our computations on our own and we outsource our data and our computations to possibly untrusted platforms。

This necessitates。The ability for us to verify。That the answers we got are' incorrect。

 namely that the server or the platform。😮，This is a computation that they were supposed to do。

And that's exactly the focus of what we're going to talk about today。

 and actually during the next several lectures， like。5 lectures to give or take。Okay。

 so we're going move to the topic of proof systems。

And the topic of today is we're going to talk about interactive proofs and zero knowledge proofs。😊。

 but basically in the next several lectures where we're going to show kind of the holy grarail that we're going to see。

😊，Is basically how to take any computation can be very， very large。And we're going to show how I can。

Instead of， I can eye the untrusted platform。Can do this gigantic computation and give you a very succinct certificate。

😊，That certifies the correctness of my output。Or more generally， I can take any proof。

And convert it into a suint proof。I can just showing proofs。And moreover。

I can prove to you the things what I want to prove to you， not only using succeedness。

 but also without giving any information。So there's a lot of magic happening here。And as usual。

 we'll see that。As we've seen from the beginning of this course that actually everything you want to do is impossible。

 and well come up with creative ways of getting around these impossbilities。😊，ok。So， okay。

 so our starting point is so okay， the notion of proof。 Okay。

 so let me first say the notion of proofs have been studied。😊，For thousands of years。

 starting probably the formal way of studying studying it started from Euclid。 Okay。

 so we're talking thousands of years ago。And also in computer science。

 it's one of the most fundamental notions and that's actually what kind of governed the definition of the class NPP。

Okay， so let's。Recall， what is the class NP？It's exactly and we'll use this later。

 what is the class NP， This is the class。Of all。Languages。 a language is just a subset of strings。

Okay， so it's。Other subset of strings such that。You can prune。😮，To a polynoial time verifier。

 membership in this language said to that there exists a polynomial。P。And an efficient。

Alrithm we'll call it R， that's the NP relation。So efficient algorithm。Such to that。I'll finish here。

Is an oun？If in only。There exists a witness， we'll call it a witness， there exists a stream。A bring。

P of x。Soarch to that。😮，This relation algorithm outputs one。😊，So namely。

 this you should think of the verifier。So what is the class NP。

 it's exactly the set of languages that I can prove to membership in the language via a proof of polynomial length。

That can be verified by a polynomial time algorithm。😡，So this is kind of the verifier， he verifier。

 he verifies。That this is a good proof， W， which we call witness。

 you can think about it as a proof of membership。😊，So really in computer science。

 this is in the mid early 70s。😊，The class of NP was exactly the class of proofs。

 the class of languages that can be efficiently verified。 So now we talk about also efficiency。

 you know， when people talked about proofs in， when people still talk about proofs in in mathematics。

 And there's a whole field called proof theory， they're not always concerned about efficiency。 But。

 of course， as computer science。 What governs us is efficiency。 So these are the language Ns。

 the class of languages that for which membership in the language can be efficiently verified。😊。

And this is really kind of the most basic definition in theoretical computer science。So now okay。

 so we have this input that's also proofs， but until recently kind of the mid 80s。

WeSo for all through history， thousands of years until the mid 80s。

We always thought of a proof as being some sequence of logical deductions。Okay。

 so you start with how you， you know， it's kind of a sequence。 This implies。 this implies。

 this implies it until at the end， you get the conclusion that the statement is true。

 That existent the language or whatever statement it is。This changed。😮，In the mid 80s。

With the definition of zero knowledge。Okay， so now came。😮。

Right it here came Goldmassel Micandi and Raov here at MIT。This is mid80s。Something like 85。

And their goal， they are cryptographers。 and they their goal was about they didn't care so much about efficiency。

 That wasn't the main goal。 They wanted zero knowledge。 So they did this notion of zero knowledge。

Zero knowledge proofs。O。What is zero knowledgege proofs。

 Their idea or what they intended zero knowledge proofs to be is to be proofs。

That don't reveal any information about why the statement is true。

The verifier is only convinced that the statement is true without knowing any information about why that's the case。

Okay， so as crypographers， we like to hide information。 We like to encrypt。

 We like to be secret about our stuff。And so it's a natural kind of thing to define。

 we not only want to encrypt our messages， we also want to quote unquote encrypt our proofs。

 but we want to convince you， so we want it's not just now you know nothing。

 We want you to know that the theorem is true。But， that's it。Okay。

 and that's the notion of zero algebras。 Now， I'll define it formally。

But what I want to say before I define it， this completely changed the way we think about proofs。

And from this definition onwards， like there's been a huge kind of explosion of amazing， really。

 really beautiful results on proof systems that I'll try to kind of show you in the next。

 I don't know， four or five lectures。😊，This is really the topic that's dearest to my heart。

 I think it's really one of the beauties of science。 So I'm hoping to convey it to you O， so。😊。

How would we define your outs。And the way Godlesss So Mikali and Raov defined it or wanted to define it is as follows in its natural。

 You want to say。The verifier doesn't learn anything。

 So you give the verifier the proof he doesn't learn anything。

What does it mean doesn't learn anything？😡，You want to say verifier V。Learns nothing。

Except that the same is true。Let's say the statement is X is in now。 Okay。

 let's say this is the statement。 Some instance in the language。So he only learns that。

 but doesn't learn anything else。Okay，But this is English。

 What does it mean he doesn't learn anything else。So the way they defined it is the only kind of natural way。

 or equivalently V。I have。Genenerated。The proof。Andaz own。He he could by himself generate this proof。

If he can't generate this proof， then he learns something。

He learned something that he could not on his own。😡，If if he can generate it， of course。

 he didn't learn anything。So this seems like， yeah。

 if you convinced me of something that I could do on my own。😡，Great， then I didn't learn anything。

 I could have done it on my own。This is a great definition， however。😊。

Then it seems like it only captures official languages。Because if I can prove it on my own。

 I can if I improve it on my own， then I could compute， then I compute the proof now， okay， so。

 so I know that excellent' in the language。So the problem is that this implies。Zero knowledge proofs。

😮，Only。😮，4our。Efficient languages。efficientient。I。e。4。P。Okay。

P means the class P Pano time computable， So it's going to become provers。 Okay。

 so it's going to go away soon。 But for now， this is the class P， Panoan time computable languages。

So okay， so nothing。😡，So it's a nice definition， but it doesn't capture and if it's efficient。

 I don't need a proof， thank you very much。😡，Yeah。😊，Efficiently， yeah。Exactly， thank you very much。

 I mean， efficiently， because。Ineffficiently， he can learn the witness， he can learn a lot of things。

 but when I say he didn't thank you。 when I want to say he didn't learn anything。

 he could have efficiently generated on his own。O， so it's a nice definition。

 Def guarantees your knowledge， but also， you can't get it。 Okay，Okay， so that's real good。

And if you， now we want to get a positive result， of course。

It's not at all clear how to define it differently。It's really， so there have been。

Like other definitions， that are somewhat meaningful。 for example， I can。

 I can say it's zero knowledge， quote unquote， if the verifier can learn the witness。

He says the proof he cannot learn the actual witness。

So let's say the light want to clean that a graph is three colorable。

 You can color it with three colors at the two， every two adjacent node adjacent nodes are colored with different colors。

 That's my claim。Maybe I can give you a zero och proof where then you can't on your own find the three coloring。

😡，But that's not really zero knowledge because you may have learned a lot of things about the graph that you would know by yourself。

 you just don't know the actual coloring， but maybe you learned a lot。

 so it's not really zero knowledge。😡，Okay， so it's not clear how to define this notion differently with really ensuring that you didn't learn anything。

So what do we do， We're stuck。Okay， now。I'll let you appreciate the fact that we're stuck。

 And now I'm going show you， I'm actually going to give you your knowledge proof。Well。

 you learn nothing。For a language， and that's not MP。So here's my proof。Okay。These are two trucks。😮。

Okay。I claim they're different。They're not the same。

 Suppose it's a really hard computational problem to find out that if they're the same or not。Okay。

 you need to be to have like， amazing telepathy abilities and so on that only I have， you don't have。

😊，So I can give you the two chas。 I can ask you， are they different or not， you sell me。

 They look the same。 I think they're the same。 I'm like， no， it's because you're not smart enough。

 If you had the ability to I have， you would know that they're different。So， of course， you're like。

 okay， show me where they're different。 Like， I'm not going to reveal that。 Then I lose my power。

 So I don't want to show you why they're different。 I can show you and reveal my power。

 but I I I don't want to do that。Okay， so now so of course you say， I don't believe you then。

So let me prove it to you in zero knowledge。Okay， ready for my proof。😊，Okay， so I tell you。

 this is chalk A， this is chalk B。Okay， A and B， I give it to you， guys。Okay。I turn around。

 You either switch or don't switch。I come back and I tell you， this is A and this is B。

Or I tell you which one is which。That's my proof。Now， let's see。First of all， are you convinced。

 well。You're right。 exactlyact。 I need to do it a lot of times。 if they're the same。

Then with probably half， I'll fail because I don't know if you switch or not。

 with probably half you switch， probably half if you didn't switch， but they're the same。

 So I have no idea。So I'll filled with probability have。Okay， but let's repeat it 100 times。

 If every time I guess correctly。If they're the same， this happens with probably 20 minus-100。

So you're pretty convinced that I know they're different。Now， what did you learn？I gave you the chas。

I told you this is A， this is B。You usually switched in switch。😮。

You knew what the correct answer should be。😮，So I didn't tell you actually anything。

You could have simulate all this on your own， here's your simulation。

 I you could generate this on your own， give the chalks， switch， and I said switch。😡，P the chas。

 don't switch， and I say didn't switch。You really didn't learn anything。Okay。

 so now hopefully I sufficiently。😊，Like now I sufficiently confused you。Why did I confuse you？

On the one hand， I told you vion knowledge proofs you can only do for languages and P for things that you can efficiently check on your own。

But now I give you an example of these two chas that you cannot on your own check if they're the same or not。

 and yet I did convince you of your knowledge。So what happened here， yeah。

I this kind of the same idea is like you're calling it Oracle？行の。

It basically can't distinguish between like whether x is in H or not， but the oracle uses。Okay。

Very're very good。 exactly。 So basically what you're saying， that's， that's precisely it。

 I'm not sure the terminology I would call an orle， but basically， you're right。You're saying， wait。

 this is not a normal proof。 What is this。You're talking to someone， you call it an oracle。

 and you call it the prover， but there's some conversation going on like this is not what a proof is。

Approve isn't my。If I didn't see， nothing is written。

And that's exactly how they got around this impossibility。

So how did they get around this possibility formally。

They completely changed the way we think about proofs completely。So to get a positive result。

They defined this notion of what's called interactive proofs。So while a classical， yeah。Good。

 so I didn't。 Good。 That's a great question。 The question was， how do I， the prover know the。

Proof the witness on my own， right， That's who you asked。 Good。 So I， I'm not， I'm。

 let's say I have a witness。 I don't know how I generated it。

 Either someone gave it to me or I worked really hard off and found it。

 or I just have a special brain that I can generate。

 I know why these chops are different than you don't。 So I'm not getting into how I。

 I have access to my witness。 But suppose I have a witness。Okay， how I got it， I don't know。

 but someone gave it to me。 somehow I got it。 Now， I want to prove to that I have a witness without giving it a witness。

Okay。Oh， okay， so right。 So you asked how we generated the proof on its own。 Okay， so in my example。

 heres what we would do。 So this proof is a weird proof。 It's some kind of an interactive proof。

So the proof， the proof is I give you the chalk。 Okay， so we will say give chalk step 1， step 2。

The verifier should change or not change。Step three， the prover will answer。If he changed。

 the prover will say changed， if he didn't change， the prove will say didn't change。

 what proof that's the proof and the verify could generate this。😡。

You don't need to know why they're different。To kind of know what the Poover's answer will be。

That's the point。 The provet didn't give you anything because you knew what the correct answer is。

 He's telling me the correct answer， but you knew it。On your own。Yeah。你说。If we w to like。这一些过。Xs。道。

We do something where its just like。没国电。Crime that like。Ex was。Van L and then。Wish。Between those。

If they can distinguish， then we know that。would题。Okay， so， okay。

 so you're suggesting you're saying maybe one way to make a zero knowledge proof is to kind of to tell the prover。

 the prover comes and say accident now。 That's my claim。 Now you come to me and you give me。

 here's an X prime。I'm telling you， I don't know about X prime。 I'm not an X for an X prime。

 I'm not going to prove you anything about your X prime because I don't know。

 I don't have a proof for X prime。 Maybe it's。 I don't know。 I don't know X prime。 I know。

 I can tell you about my X。So the fact that you come to me with your own next prime。

 I don't want to deal with it。 However， this idea ofbusing。

An alternative instance is actually very good idea。 and it's used in various places。

And I think we're gonna。Get there maybe next week。 some， something that relates to the suggestion。

 okay。Okay， great。Any other questions？Yeah。Exactly， that's precisely right。 So indeed， let me repeat。

 because it's a very， very good point。 Usually， when I have a proof。You know， standard proof。

 you know， like a textbook proof。I can then give it to someone else。 I can sell it。I can， you know。

 if someone hates me and me hey， by the way， this is proof of fors last yearem。I said，" I mean。

 I better I can then sell it。So it's information， it's useful。😡。

Here by the virtue of being your knowledge。Kind of makes the proof useless。In particular。

 you can't convince someone else that you've got the proof。

Because you could have generated you can't go to someone， oh my God。

 and told me that these trucks are different， I'm sure that they're different and said， why。

 because you see，You take it， you change or not change， and now you know， like okay？😡。

It was your knowledge， so you can't convince anyone else。So you're convinced on your own。

 but you can't do it than anything。And you're right， that's a property。

 It's both a feature and a bug。It's a feature because that's what you want your knowledge proof to be。

 It's a bug because then like， okay， you're convinced， but you're， you're left with nothing。Okay。

 so it's kind of a double episode。Okay， so。What is this proof。

 this weird proof that I just demonstrated you with the chalks。

So it's really not a book a standard proof that you write in a textbook。

What it really is is some kind of a。What we call interactive proof between me， the prover and you。

 the verifier。It consists of kind of interaction where I come to you。 I give you the chas。

You change or not change。 You give me the chunks。 I tell you A B。

 So it's some kind of back and forth interaction。Now， of course， this is't physical proof。

 That's just to demonstrate the idea， but an interactive proof。So heres the definition。

An interactive proof。Denoted by IP。4。Membership in a language， let's say。Consist。Of a prover。

 so there's a prover algorithm。P。And。😊，A PPT， a probabilistic polynomial time algorithm。

Or which we call verifier。We。With the following guarantee， such that。Two things are required to hold。

Let me put such that here。Such to that。So Ill have two things。

First thing is what we call completeness。😊，Completeness just says that if x is in a language。

 if it's true。You'll be convinced if I'm honest and it's true you'll be convinced。

 namely for every act in the language。The prover in the verifier when they interactpped un inputed。😊。

The verfi will output1。 we denote by this。 This means V accept。Oh， sorry。😮，No， no， no， no， no。

 I didn't write it well。For every the probability。That we accept。So V is probabilistic。We。Remember。

 you guys， the verifier。 You were randomized with probability half you switch with probability half you didn't switch。

This V is randomized。 You can think of it as having。A random R is input。

And the probabilities over this are。It's a randomized verifier。

 And the probability that V outputs one， this just means。The accept。He accepts the proof。 Okay。

 He's convinced that probability is。Sometimes people require one。

 some people just sometimes people just say it's big enough。Greater than two third。

 This is most common in the literature。 Sometimes it will require one。Okay， now， what do you mean。

 two third。 What is this number， It's arbitrary， but there is。Also， a thless condition。

That says that for every x not in the language。So if I'm trying to convince you of a false claim。

And for every cheating prover。Doesn't matter however he wants to cheat。That probability。

That the verifier will accept him。Is small， let's say smaller than a third。

These two numbers are completely arbitrary。 The only important is that they're different。

 They're separated from each other。 that this is bigger than this。 you can do3，5th，2，5，7，10th，610th。

 whatever they just need to be separated。 I'll explain to you why。

But this is also over the randomness of the verifier。Okay， so basically。

When we say an attractive proof。Oh， I didn't write that。 It's interactive。 Sorry， So， okay。

 so it consists of interacted。Prover P and the PT interacted。Verifier V。

 and basically what I mean by interactive， I mean that you know it starts， so there's P and V。

P starts by sending a message， let me call it M1 to the verifier。The verifiers PPT。

 he may toss some coins， I1 and will send。I don't know。So let me let's say he starts， he tosses coin。

 he sends question one。This guy answers answer one。Then， he sends。We may toss more coins。And San。

 here's another question for you。And then the prover。

Is going to answer his question and so on so forth。 At the end， the war chooses to accept or reject。

Based on everything and his private coins。ok。And the guarantee is， if it's in the language。

 he will accept with high probability。 If it's not in the language。

 he will reject with high probability。Okay。Questions。Why O， So let me ask you a question。

 What's up with this one third and two third business。I mean。

 that you're not happy with a proof where， okay， if I tell you， okay， if it's in the language。

 use comp disorability， two third， if it's time comp disability， one third， it's not good enough。

 So what do you do。Repeat， yeah， exactly。So the idea is the reason we don't care about this they're arbitrary。

What we're going to actually do is we're going to repeat。This protocol， let's say，100 times。

And then at the acceptance probability。Is that say half。

Or between this parameter is what's called completeness， C for completeness。Often denoted by C。

 And this parameter is what's called S soundness， S for soundness。And as long as C is bigger。

 significantly， like there is some gap between CNS。Then you can repeat。😡，This protocol。

 and if the fraction of acceptance is closer to C than it is test。You're happy， yeah。Okay， good。

 Yeah， sorry。 I now sometimes I call it curly。 sometimes not。

 I'll just den by not curly in the lecture They're all curly， but it's easier to write Okay， good。

 So the question is， we said that Vs randomized。 What about P。Okay。

So for the definition and interactive proof， he can be randomized， but he doesn't need to。

 He doesn't gain from being randomized。However， if you will want a zero knowledge。Proof。

 then we'll need to make him randomized so he can be randomized so he can be。 He can be randomized。O。

 we we will， well soon define zero knowledge proofs。

 and then we'll define the prover more specifically， and there well want him to be randomized。Here。

 this prover can be any proof。 It can be randomized。 It can run be all powerful。 the prover。

 actually， when this was defined， there was also another paper by by Bayan Noan。

 more or less at the same time， they weren't concerned about zero knowledge。

 they were only concerned about interactive proofs。😊，And they called the provever。

 they called it Arthur Merlin。 So Merlin was kind of a wizard。 He was the provever。

So they thought of the proving all powerful。 And the verifier， they called Arthur。

 So he was like a bounded machine。 and the wizard was supposed to convince。😊，Arthur， King Arthur。

 that things were done correctly。Okay， so this is kind of human。 This is a wizard， okay。

And the human can to coins。1。😮，Not， not， no。 He can be all powerful。 That's kind of the wizard。

 Of course， when we'll use it and talk about it today， won't be conservative with efficient provers。

 But as a definition， no。Okay， so these proofs。😮，Were defined for the sake of zero knowledge。O。

 God Miikaakov defined it Ta get you outpos。 That was their goal。But actually， if you think about it。

This is a very interesting way to do proofs。Forget about zero knowledge。Yeah。

 why not have a conversation？Why， why am I saying why not have a conversation？

This proof system seems to be much more powerful。Then just classical proof systems。By classic。

 I mean， you just write down the proof and it verify it。And why， why is it so powerful？ So。

 first of all， before I continue， let me just say one thing。For example。If V is deterministic。Okay。

 let's if he doesn't toss coins。Then I argue this is exactly， this is not this is almost like MP。

 Basically， the interaction is not needed at all， why。😡，Because if we is deterministic。

Then the prover is just gonna to write the entire thing down。 He's gonna say， okay。

 here's my message 1。 Now， I know this is your message。

 too because you're a deterministic and you're polynoial time so I can simulate you。

 And then this is my answer。 I know your question because you're deterministic。 So here's my answer。

 I know and he's gonna just， this is， this is just our conversation。 Are you going accept it or not。

So there's no notion。 We didn't。Get anything。And in particular。In our example， with a chalk。

 the only reason it was meaningful is because you tossed a coin。

If to switch or not to switch and I didn't know what your coin was。If you were deterministic。

 I don't know how I would convince you。Really， the sound is light in the fact that I don't know if you switched。

 that there was a random coin that was tossed by you if to switch or not。

 And I don't know what it is。And that's always kind of what makes。This proves powerful。Okay。

 so by the way， I， I glanced through through the repetition。 First， any questions。

So let me just write down one thing because I glanced over too quickly about these two constants。

So by repeating this protocol sequentially。And let's say accepting if， let's say。

 more than half accept。You can get a protocol where or by repeating it sequentially。

 let's say lambda times lambda is some security parameter。Then we can argue that。We can， O。

 by repeating it， by repeating it Lambda times， maybe I'll write it here。

We can give the proven if we give the proven the verify like some security parameters input。

 let's say one to the lambda。 Basically， we tell them repeat this protocol lambda times。

Then we can drive completeness to one minus negligible。In Lambda， actually almost 1-2 to the lambda。

 So very close to one。 And sound is。To be negligible in London。

And that's why the specific constants have no significant。Okay。And this is just by turn up bound。

So kind， this is something we've played around with I'm not gonna go into it。

But it's in the lecture notes， if you're interested。Okay。Great， so now what do I need to tell you？

 So， of course， I need to tell you， now that we define this notion is it useful。

Is it useful to get zero knowledge。So first， it useful things you not， yes。

 let me tell you what is known。 What is I'm not going to show it to you right away。

 but here's the mind。Bggling fact。Actually。Every proof， Every proof。Can be converted into zeroal one。

So anything I want to prove to you， I can prove zero knowledge。That's amazing。And moreover。

Not only that。This proof system， this interactive proof， even if you don't care about zero knowledge。

It's extremely powerful。 You can do a lot more things than what you can do with classical tools。

So I'm going to give you today I'm going to try to give you a little bit of both。

 I don't know if I'm going to get to the entire NP everything today， but let me try to give you。

 let me first actually give you a little bit of teaser before I go into zero knowledge。

 Why this is a powerful class。 why interactive proofs are powerful。Okay。

 let me give you via one example。Okay，And also， what's also really nice about these things that proofs are super simple。

 Then transfer proofs are super simple。 So let me give you an example。😊，Okay， so here's our example。

 Let's look at。Graph。The problem of graph non isomorphism。O。What is this problem， So suppose。

I'm giving you， I say， here are two graphs。Graph G1 and graph G2。And what is a graph， There's a。

 let's say the graph is on n vertices for simplicity。 Okay， so suppose I have a graph G1。😊。

I consists of a set of vertices V1， which let me just assume it's1 up to n。So nodes one of 10。

And there's a set of edges。一万人。And edge is just connects。

 Some pair of nodes are connected by an edge。 So edge is a subset of。I guess， n times n。

ISo any edges of the form I J。Now， here when I write it like this， it seems like it's directed。😊。

Cause it's， it's if it's undirected， I should write it like this。

But actually think of it as non directed。 Okay， think of it as doesn't matter。

 It really doesn't matter。 So maybe non directed is usually easier to think about。

I'll still use this mutation because that's what people use。 But let's say if you have I J。

 you also have J I， okay。Okay， so I have this graph and I have another graph。 So this is， let's see。

An end。And the one。And this is a graph， let's say N。And E2。

There's this notion of whether these two graphs are isomorphic or not。

So what is the notion of isomorphisms？So two graphs are isomorphism are isomorphic， basically。

If so G1 and G2 are isomorphic is basically G2 is exactly the same as G1。

But just if you just rename the variables， if you rename the the nodes。

 you'll get exactly the same graph。 So in other words。We say that G1 and G2。2。Iszomorphic。

If there's this imp perutation pi。And the nodes， so you just rename the node。😮，Okay。

 instead of node 1 called node 7， the pi just renames the node such that。😡，Any。

 not any IJ for every INJ。This is an edge in E1 if and only if。😊，Pi I in。And T J。Is an ajuity？Okay。

 so basically， if you just rename the nodes。😮，Then you had the exact same。

 it's basically the same graph。Then they're called asomorphic。If you don't have such fine。

 they're non isomorphic。Okay。Now， if I want to prove to you that two graph are aomorphic。

This is that's an NP。 So look at the language。Iomorphism， isomorphic。

 which consists of the graphs G1 and G2。😊，Such that。G1 and G2 are isomorphic。I think this is an NP。

 What is the witness， What's the proof。Yeah， exactly。 the witness of the permutation。

 If I give you the permutation， you can easily check。Okay。What about graph non isomorphism？😡，B。

 this is the compliment， So all the G1 and G2。Such that G1 and G2。Are not。Isomorphic。

Which means that such a permutation does not exist。Now I want to prove to you。😮。

That G1 and G2 are not isomorph， do not belong or in language isomorphic bar。😡。

So I want to prove to you that these are not isomorphic。😡。

How can I prove it to you using a regular proof？I don't know。

 I really have no idea like you can go over other。I mean。

 you know I can write down all the permutations and for each one I'll show you doesn't work。哈。😮。

And factorial， pretty large。I want to give you your， you're an Arthur。 You can't verify that。Okay。

 you're polynomial time。You run time pollan。So how can I prove to you using。

Polyocytes prove that these two graphs are not asmorphic。And yeah。I'll do the talk exactly， exactly。

 by using a standard proof。We don't know how to do。 we don't know that this language is in P。😡。

That this N complete language is N P。We don't sorry， It's an N。Okay， so we don't know。

Pnomial length Wi。For this language。By the way， let me first say one thing。

 we don't even there may be。 I'm not saying there is no because we don't know。 maybe for all I know。

 P NP P and P are the same。 and everything collapses。 Okay， that's a big open question。

 We still don't know how to prove that P is different than N P。

 This most basic fundamental question is still unsolved。So for all we know， there is a proof。

 efficient proof， for all we know actually the bear can check on his own。

But we don't believe that to be the case。 Okay， we believe that there is no kind of classical proof for this fact。

😡，I'm going to give you an interactive proof。And here's my interactive proof。Okay， the verifier。

What the ver is going to do， He' is going to choose one of them。 So he' is going to choose a random。

B。Between one and 2。 So he's going to basically choose one of these graphs。

And he's going to choose a random permutation。And random。Pie。From N 10。

And what he's going to send me。Is it permutation？Of G。So suppose for a second again。

 let's say these two Gs are with the same set of vertices， one of 10。

He's going to send me the permutation。The permuted edges of GB。😡。

So he's going to take all the edges in GB and send me all the edges I J and He's going to send me pi and p J。

😡，But he's not going to tell me what the perutation is。F I said。

 here are my list of edges for my own graph。Which is。This。Okay， so by this。

 I just mean he's going to take all the edges。😡，In graph in the G。

 and he's going to send the permuded edges along。This guy。It's supposed to guess what be is。那我。

Is there indeed。No isomorphic。Then this is only as amorph fixed GB。😡，So this is， of course。

 I do as amorph to G because。By definition， there is a permutation。😊。

And it can't be isomorphic to both G1 and G2 because G1 and G2 are not isomorphic。😡。

So it's only ismorph to one of them。And this ruling guy， all powerful wizard can tell？Now。

 I'm not saying it's easy to tell。 if you give me。Pi of G， I can't efficiently。Test， if it's。

 even if I know that these two are non isomorphic for some reason。

 somehow I know they're not isomorphic。 It's not clear。

That I can efficiently tell if this is as amorphphoic to G1 or to G2。But I'm now a wizard。 Okay。

 so I'm a wizard。 I can do these very complicated computations， exponential time computations。

 whatever。 and I give you B。😊，Now， what do you know？If theyre non iszomorphic。

 I'm going to always give you the correct B because I'm a wizard and I'll do the computation。

 I'll give you its only azomorphic to 1 B。To one graph， and its's G。On the other hand。

These two are isomorphic。😮，I really have no idea where it came from。

This is a random graph that's isomorphic to both of them， basically。

So there's really no information about where it came from。

So I'm going to guess quickly probability half。Information theoreticalally。Eer prover。

 even if I'm all powerful，'s it's just。There's just no information about the two graphs are isomorphic。

😡，This graph contains contains no information about B。It's a random。😮，graphraph that。

That's isomorphic to both of these。And therefore， our own6 root probability have。

And so now repeat it。 Yeah， sorry。我的。Al。我。Okay。Okay， but okay， so the question is。

 what if P can always check G1 first， But if they're not isomorphic。If B was one。

 he will say one and done。 If B was two， he will check one first， but it won't。

He'll realize that these were not as an often， so what I'm going to do。

So it doesn't actually matter what he checks first。Because if these two are'm not as amorph。

If he check the correct one， he'll say that one。 If he check the incorrect one， he'll say， okay。

 that's not the one。 And then he'll answer the correct one。And if they are isomorphic。Then he。

Doesn't matter what he does。 He can't。 like this doesn't have an information about B。

 So there's no way he can。 B was random。 And this thing doesn't have an information about B。

 So there's no way he can guess it。NoYeah。Right， okay， so in this example， you're right。

 In this example， P runs in a lot of time。So maybe P。😮，Even if P somehow knew with like some limit。

 I't know he had some like G1， I don't know。The truth， O， the truth is， yeah， okay。

 we're not going to root trees one time because in general to save two graphs。

To prove that they're not idzomorphic， I don't know how to do that efficiently anyway。

So for him to even kind of be convinced that these tornamorph isomorphic can be around a long time。

But you're right， here we're not at all with Pete's runtime。

 and he's going to run in a lot of time to be able to carry this proof。😊，Okay， but it just shows us。

That if we do have a wizard that's willing to help us。Not with a classical proof。

 he can't help us because he even if he's a wizard。

 he can't come up with a classical proof short pial proof for the fact that G1 and G2 are not asmorphic because if he could。

 it would be an NP。Yeah。No， the length， the verifier runs in polynomial time。

The length of the proof in the runtime of the verifier is polymial time。It's just a。

Is not polynomial time。 So in other words， even for MP， suppose I'm a wizard。

 And you'll come to me and you say。Here's I know sack for not。Give me a witness。

 give me a satisfying assignment。😡，I will need to run an exponential time problem to find your assignment for you。

I mean， we don't believe that SaAT can be solved efficiently。But if I'm a wizard。

 I'll be able to do it and then give you a small assignment。So， even for N。

The wizard who comes up with a proof， He's a wizard Unless someone gave him the proof。 But， you know。

 he's going to run in a long time to find the proof。 but the proof then is short。

With graph 9 as amorphism， even if I， the wizard。Running unbound the time。

 I can't come up with a short classical proof for you， whereas with only one round of interaction。

 I can convince you when you're only a polynomial time machine。So， that's the difference。And again。

 really what distinguishes and know this is barely ened。

But what distinguishes is the fact that the prover。

 the ver is random randomized and the prover cannot predict。😊，The randomness of the verifier。

So the entire soundness lies on the fact that the poor design or the randomness of the verifier。Okay。

 okay， so this is just to give you a teaser。For why attractive proofs are so powerful。

As we'll mention next week， actually， we know so now can say， okay， how powerful are they？

How powerful what can we prove an interactive proof for a polynomial time verifier。

And the answer is this is a result of Shair。In the early 90s。Thank you。 and I think so too。

Is that every language and that what can you prove in peace in interactive proof。

 any language in peace space。So。P。Any language that you compute。

 you can check membership in the language。By a Turing machine that runs in polynomial space。

 that time， the runtime of the T machine can be exponential。But as long as the space is polynomial。

 I can have an interactive proof for you。And the prover， basically， the prove， sorry。

 the verifier's runtime is basically proportional to the space。That's why it needs polynoial space。

 Basically what Jamil proves。Is I can prove to you that any tuuring machine give me a tuuring machine。

It can run exponential time。I can prove to you that this train machine and input x outputs one where the verifier runs in the space of the train machine。

And so that's why peace space， because we're thinking of the Pers at the Ver phenomenon time。

 And this is believed to be much， much more powerful than Np。😊，Okay， so yeah。Exactly， great。

 great question。 We'll， we'll talk about this next week， too。

 or the week anyway in the coming lecture。 Yeah， so if you have a tuuring machine that has。

 let's say， polylo space， Maybe you have tu that has a very small space， like polylo space。😊。

Then you can convince the verifier where the interaction is only if size like proportional to polylog。

And it's really proportional to the space up to polylo factors here and there， but。Okay。

 so let's take a couple minute break， and then we'll go back to zero knowledge。Okay， let's continue。

Okay， so where were we？So， you know， we defined this we said we want to define zero knowledge。

 We didn't actually define it formally yet。 We just said that basically zero knowledge should mean that the verifier could have generated the proof on his own。

We said that to do that， we needed to move to interactive proofs。

 and then I kind of showed you that interactive proofs are powerful Okay。

 by just demonstrating one example where I don't have a polynomial size。

 kind of witness or classical proof， but I do have a polynomial size。

 or I can convince a polynomial time verifier nevertheless， that two graphs are not isomorphic。😊。

Okay， but now I want to go back to zerooom knowledge。And I don't know if anybody noticed。

But the proof that I gave you here。Its actually zero knowledge。

Actually gave you a zero knowledge proof of graph 9 iszomorphism。Okay， you are okay。Scratch that。

Almost gives you knowledge。ok。Let me actually give you， let me give you， okay。

 let me define zero knowledge。 And then we'll top why it's almost zero knowledge。

But let me first define your knowledge， and then I'm going to give you。

 we're going to see if this is your knowledge and then。😊。

I'm going to give you another we Ca knowledge。So what is the definition， Let's look at。

 What is a zero knowledge proof definition。Okay， so。An interactive proof。For a language L。

 let's say L an NP。Okay， so when we talk about xoonology proofs。

Let's actually talk about zero knowledge proofs for MP。 Okay， so we have actually a proof。

 We want to convert it into zero knowledge proofs。Okay， so first， this this is not even N。

 But let's first talk about zero node proof for N。 And I do want to say something about the graph ofmorphism about knowledge。

 But let's wait first。 Okay， so we say that an interactive proof that proves membership in a language L is0 knowledge。

If。Is zero knowledge。Zero knowledge， this stands for zero knowledge。Basically。

 what we want to say is。When the prover for every act in the language。

When the prover proves to me that it's in the language， I don't learn anything。That's your knowledge。

 right？ So for every x and for every witness。W corresponding to it such that。RX W equals1。

 So this is a valid weakness。 This is the NP relation。The find up there。So for every axis。

 if the puer has a valid witness。And he tries to prove to you。

 So now what's the when what do mean he tries to prove， the prover has。This W。

 he interacts with a verifier where they have， they may have some security parameter。Anex。

And they talk。So。The view of this let me let to know this by this is the view namely。

What the verifier sees， So this includes all the messages the view includes the transcript。😡。

And verifiers randomness。So this is what the verifier learned。O。

 he saw the messages going back and forth， and he knows his own private randomness that he used。

That's what he learned。And we want to say he could have generated this entire thing on his own。

So namely， we say this。 if you look at all the messages is randomness。You could it's like。

 you could have generated by justers so。There exists。If。There exists。A PPT。We call him simulator。

We denoteed him by S。And that did this simulator。Could generate this proof on his own。

So in polynomial time。You give him X。😮，He could generate it。Without knowing any witness。So of course。

 he didn't learn anything。Okay， so again， we say。An interactive proof for some language， L an N P。

Is your knowledge？If there exists a simulator like the person simulating the proof。By the way。

 we willll see the simulation paradigm will come up for now until the end of this course。

 well come up over and over again。But there exists a simulator， this him a PPT， He's efficient。

 and his goal is to simulate the transcript to learn。 He's going to learn whatever the ver learned。

But he only gets an instance。He doesn't get the witness。And if what everything the verfa learned。

 you can learn without the witness in polynomial time， then basically they cant learn anything。Yeah。

Great question。 Great。 So a lot of things are missing from this definition。 Okay。

 First thing that's missing。😊，When I mean， what do I mean here， Like it's the same distribution。

 It's computational indistuishable。 What do I mean。And actually， many there are different variants。

 one can talk about perfectly， perfect zero knowledge， which exactly the same distribution。

One can talk about statistical zero knowledge， which means。They're almost the same。 statistically。

 Maybe theres a little difference， but even for an all powerful all powerful distinguisher cannot distinguish between the two。

 even though they may be negligibly off。And then， of course， there's computational zero knowledge。

 which means that usually we denote it。Like this。Or。Like。This。

 I think we usually be dennoted like this。Okay， so this means。Computational。Zero knowledge。

Which means no polynomial time distinguisher can distinguish between this and this。

So maybe the verifier learned something， but he doesn't know that he learned because it looks to him。

😡，Like this。呀。What are these two things？Good。These outputs， all the messages。

 the transcript and the ver randomness。So this is the transcript。😊，And the vers randomness。

 which is all the ver learned。And this guy should also output the transcript in the Be randomness。

 some transcripts some Be randomness。😊，第二。Okay， so you're right。 Okay。

 so when we do zero knowledge proofs， both of them are going to be randomized。

And the verifier is going nevertheless simulate。 And I'm going to show you an example of how he does it。

 So not sorry， the simulator。 So the simulator， he is going to simulate both the prover and the verifier。

Now， but he doesn't know the witness， so he can't。Really， so okay。

 what this guy is going to pretend to be both the prover and the verifier。But now I'm saying， wait。

 but he doesn't have a witness。 So how can he pretend to be the prover。 He doesn't have a witness。

 You're right。 He doesn't have a witness， but still he'll look like a bear， like， like a prover。

And basically， I'm going to show you this。 But basically， the way this。Simulator will be able。

To fake approval without a witness。Is because he gets to generate the entire transcript。

So what he's going to do， he's going to generate the messages out of order。

 that's kind of the power he's going to use。He's going to first generate this man。

And that's how he's going to manage to do without knowing a witness。

 But I'm going to show that to you。Okay。So today， we're going to talk about computational zero knowledge。

 But actually in the homework in homework 4， which is going be out。😊，On Monday。

 we are going have a quote。Do have a question about statistical you now did we scratch that Oh。

 about， okay， yeah， okay， we're gonna have a question related to that。

And I'm going to mention something about。 We're gonna to talk about。

 I'm gonna mention statistical zeroology， yeah。Okay， good。 So why we can Okay， wait， let me。

 why we concerned in only front P， So let me just， theres one。 actually， there's few things missing。

One thing that's missing is I want the one requirement that I have。

 So this is so what we want is one is this。And two is that。The prover。😮，Is efficient。So he runs PPT。

 giving a witness。That's why we care about it。 We want to keep。

 we want to say basically if the prover has a witness with that witness efficiently。

 he can convince the verifier。So that's why usually we， we think of， of of0 proof for N。

 But you're right。 We can actually think of more general proofs。 We don't have to be an N。

 And actually， even you can think of N time。 like this can be any time T。

 and you can have the prover be efficient。Like。😔，In time like poly T。

 so you can think of a witness of length bigger than poly。

 let's say length enter the log n and just require this proverron in time polynomial in this length of the witness。

And people have considered these things， but usually we care about NP because。So， okay。

 so what we're going to see is if you want zero knowledge proofs， like real proofs。

You are zeroology interactive proofs like I you defined。

 You can't get statistical0 knowledge for R N B。 You have to use computational zero knowledge。

 which means you need to use cryptography。And once you use cryptography。え。Like， usually。

 we think of everyone being polynomial time， basically， Okay。

 but you can define it in bigger classes。Okay。Okay。This definition seems very strong， right， Like。

 wow， we don't learn anything。 What more do you want。So this definition is not strong enough。

It's not sufficiently strong。Anybody have a guess。 It's a bit subtle。

 but anybody have a guess why it's not。Sufficiently strong。Okay。

 so I'll tell you the name of this definition。And then maybe it'll help you guess by it's not this is called。

So an interactive proof for L is。I this。Verifier。Zero knowledge。If this holds。Because what did I say。

 I said， if the verifier follows the protocol。Then he doesn't learn。Okay。

 so I'll verifyifier that behaves honestly。Whatever he learns from the transcript and the randomness。

 oh， you can simulate it with given only the input。😡，But if he wants to learn。

 why would he be honest？So now think of the， usually we think of the prover as being malicious。

 but now think of the verifier。 He wants to learn。 He's a bad guy。 He wants to steal your secret。

And you don't want to give it to him。So。The general definition。😊，So this is honest Verifier。

 let me scratch honest verifier。😊，And the actual definition is。For every。PPTV star。

So take any cheating prover。😊，Sorry， any cheating verifier。There exists a simulator。

 such that no matter how this guy。Cries to learn whatever he does。I can simulate him。

So actually doesn't learn anything。Whatever he learned， he could have learned on his own basically。

By just running us。O， but any cheating prove。Okay。So this is almost strong enough。 But actually。

 even this is not strong enough。Even though it seems like what more do you want？

No matter how this guy is cheating。Whatever he learns， you can simulate by the simulator。

 what more do you want？😡，远。Oh， the prover is honest。So hes， we're not gonna look。

 the prove is malicious and just gives you the witness then whatever。 Like， I mean， okay。

 we do think of malicious proveers where we want soundless。😊，So I said an attractive proof。

Which has completeance and soundness is zero knowledge but in general zero not interactive zero knowledge proof。

😊，For some language， you need it to be first approved。

 so you need to satisfy completely and soundness and your knowledge。Okay。

 but here I already said it's already an interactive proof。 So， and I define what that means。

 So this inter proof already satisfies completely soundness。

 and it should also satisfies this notion of zero knowledge。😊，Okay， so when we talk about sound。

 So completeness everybody's honest。 just to want to say if everybody's honest。

 they should the verifier should be convinced。Okay， and then when you want sound， as you say。

If the proveer is trying to cheat and claim false plane， here's the prover's cheater。😡。

Then the honest verifier should reject him。 Of course， if the ver is malicious， he can do it。

 You know， if he wants to accept him just for the fun of the deaths， you know， but。

When you want to make sure the prover proves what like uncorr statements。

The verify honest you wantna also consider malicious provers。In zero knowledge。

 you want to say even malicious vampires don't learn from an honest group。Okay， so zero nodes。

 we consider malicious provers for sound， we can for zero node。

 consider malicious verifiers for soundists， we consider malicious provers。😊，O。Makes sense。

But we're still missing something from this definition。And this is very subtle。

 but I'll tell you what it is because it comes up all the time in cryptography This thing that we're missing here has been by the way。

 the original definition of zero knowledge was this。 It was missing something。And at some point。

 it was added。 I actually not sure when in history was added， but at some point， it was added。

And this this whatever is missing now has been missing in many primitives。

 more advanced primitives that we'll see we'll talk about later in this course。SheYeah。好比。Okay， so。

 okay， the question is how， so Im think of W as a valid witness。 Okay， so a valid witness。

 let's say this this N relation only accepts witnesses of a certain size。Okay， so。

 and I'm only if if it's a valid witness， namely。The relation except。

 so this witnesses like the fixed millial size。Then this holds。Oh。very。Tran is also。こいの。Yeah。

 the transs polynomial size， exactly trans polynomial size， yes。Question。Yeah。Okay。

 I didn't yet give zero o proofs。 But as soon as I'll give a  zero o proof， I'll show you， okay。诶。

Okay， let me tell you what's missing。What is missing is the following。 And this is a very good exc。

 because I want you to think adversarly。 Okay， we want to protect against any adversarial ver。

We want to make you no matter what he doesn't learn anything， no matter what。😡。

And it's very easy to consider， like， scenarios that are， are are。Natural。

 it's much harder to think about the unnatural scenarios。Okay， so now heres。

 here's now let me tell you why this is not good enough。Maybe if the cheating verifier only has X。

 he doesn't learn anything。But， maybe。If he has some auxiliary information about X。

 of sudden he learns everything。So， really， what we want。Is。

For every X W and for every Z of polynomial signs。For every auxiliary information， Z。

If we give the verifier， actually， this is， it's not even the prover。 Let me write it better。

 Suppose the verifier has some Z。You know something。Yeah， here's good， sorry。

Then if we give it also to the simulator， he should be able to simulate。

So maybe the way the cheating prover， the cheating verifier succeeds is he somehow knows something。😊。

About about the witness or something and uses that cheat。😡，And now also sudden he learns。Now。

 I agree。 youre probably the， this is contrived。 What can he learn that will help him。

 We'll see actually， what he can learn。 We'll see it actually it came up because of attacks。Yeah。

Yes from the device。It can depend on X。 Great question。 Great question。 So the question was， wait。

 is the independent X or can it depend on X， We won't allow it to depend on X。

 because we want to say even if we know something about the witness。

 Maybe someone told him something about the witness。

 He should still not learn more than what he knew。Okay， and this is kind of in general。

 This is an important thing for composition。 So let me tell you in general what happens。

 What the bugs that happened for us as cryptographers， We gave standalone definition thinking， oh。

 like here， the verifier doesn't know the witness。 If you knew the witness。

 why would he go to the prover， So he doesn't know anything。And now you want to say that， okay。

 he doesn't learn。But what if he interacted about this witness with someone else and did learn something small。

We want to say he still doesn't learn。 So you want to make sure that this still composes。

 even if you used。You know， in some cases， for example， this X can be something cryptographic。

 You know， I want to prove to you that I know a quadratic residue or and we'll say actually Quadrato residue。

 the first thing we'll see next class， which is not on Monday， by the way， no class on Monday。

 but on Wednesday is zeronal for proretic reosity， but maybe。😊，You know， I， I know something because。

 oh， remember we interacted with the quadratic reroity to give some encryption scheme。

 and maybe I learned or what I learned something， I， something。 now， I don't know what。

 I can not much， but I used some decryption orle。 I learned something。And now with this information。

 maybe I can know。It can help me somehow break。The scheme。 So when we define scheme。

 we need to make sure they compose with other things。 And that's what this Z is for， yeah。No。

Every there is a proof that says an actual proof of Go and Kli and Viz that says any proof can be converted into zero proof。

 assuming one way functions exist。😊，We're going to see that next class us。It's pretty amazing。

 Think about it。 Every proof could be proven in a zero old way。😊，Okay。

 and that magic we'll see next week， okay。Enjoy your break。

